After explaining to the old guy in charge of these elves about our vacation, we come to an understanding that we need to help them with the crazy undead lady in a crypt who is attacking anything familiar to her. Finella might be an issue, but since the rest of us are strangers, we should be good.

Raven will escort us to the tomb, but they’d like us to resolve the situation however we can. He reiterates - if successful, he’ll grant us passage to Irian (chaperoned, of course).

Crypt keepers “have decided not to die” - they give up the ability to die to protect the crypt.

She loves needlepoint. She’s extra sensitive to things she’s familiar with. She fought several centuries ago when giants attacked on warships (so don’t be a giant). She cut off their reinforcements so the elven army could defeat the giant forces. Dragons came in in the end but she’s known as a hero. Calaen is the not-dead elf’s name.

There are wardens of the crypts… she’s not protecting the crypt but is the spiritual guide. The state of these wardens is unknown. They are constructs (can’t be charmed/frightened/paralyzed/poisoned, immune to psychic damage).

They don’t know why this has happened to her. No enemies come to mind.

Tam casts divination to determine if there’s any unknown peril we’re heading into…
The perils are those that the elves cannot see. The crypt is corrupt - destroy the corruption but not the corrupt.

Raven leads us to the entrance and leaves us there.

Glyphs on the walls: As a young elf she showed promise, she saved another young woman’s life. She volunteered in the war, knew it would be dangerous. She was gravely wounded, saved 100s of lives.

Aerin notices an offering that is tipped over and a non-elven glyph scratched into the wall. Tam notices a navigation glyph (we’ve seen these before in the library in the fishing village (Korrenberg)- cult of the severed word).

Longsword (+1)
Amulet of natural armor (let’s ask for this - Tam would like it)
There are some scrolls (speak with dead, shatter, & one more)

We leave them there for now…

We find a secret door, and Finella disarms a trap and gets to keep the vial of alchemists fire! We find a body. Middle-aged human. On his belt is a small iron chisel and an empty vial. No insignia on his clothes, same symbol as we’ve seen carved on the walls (cult of the severed word). The vial is something we’ve never seen before but it has strange necromantic magic !?. Something from the vial has been used to carve the marks in the wall. All the glyphs on the walls (providing light) look different in here (darker, more ominous gradually from the entrance to here). Some blunt force trauma crushed the lower part of his left leg… there are drag marks coming from the southern wall up to where the body is. His throat is slit. We find a secret door where the drag marks came from.

Aerin finds another trip wire. Finella disarms and gets another alchemist fire vial!

There’s a palm-shaped recess in the center of the door, 4 carved symbols (crossed swords, archway, flame, kneeling figure).

These seem related to the 4 frescos that we saw. They seem like they’re not part of the wall, but they could be pressed. 
Pyre
War
Ribbon on her neck
Arch

Ozzy uses mage hand to press them all in that order. The door doesn’t change but there isn’t any explosion… Tam’s hand doesn’t fit right and nothing happens. Finella tries… we hear a low grinding as a handle extends.

In the following hallway we get attacked by 3 viney creatures. We learn if they get attacked with Radiant damage, they have to save against being stunned. Might be useful later.

In the following room, Aerin hears voices through the door and sneaks through a crack to see what is going on. The spider sees 3 figures carving things around the door and a 4th slumped in the corner. They look like the dead guy and they’re gaunt and pale.

We find a sending stone that seems to be repeating a message:
“The world endures, the silence holds.”
“Give us your count.”
“The mission is the mouth that closes.”
“The mission is the last word spoken.” 
“Stay.”
“The mission is everything.”
“The mission…”

We find a journal on the really dead guy:
*Entry 1 (arrival):* The breach is made. Wards bypassed at the secondary access point as planned. Wardens are dormant. Proceeding to the sanctum. (probably the secret passage we used)
*Entry 4:* The Shard is placed. The basin is responding. We've sealed the sanctum door from the inside. Waiting for confirmation to withdraw.
*Entry 9:* The wardens are active. Tyren didn't make it back from the entry corridor. We've barricaded this room.(Probably the first dead body we found)
*Entry 14:* Selka went yesterday. I can't feel my hands. The thing in the walls is getting louder. If someone finds this — the Shard of Severed Dawn is in the basin. Don't touch it without the insulating cloth. 
*(Final entry, barely legible):* It was worth it. The seal will never—

We find a small cloth on one of the guys… is this the insulating cloth?

We hear a faint gurgling from the next room. 

Aerin sneaks through a crack in the door and sees… The room is a 40 ft circle, there’s a basin in the middle that’s glowing. The light is pulsing with a “sick slow rhythm.” Dark veins run from the basin. That looks bad.

A woman (Calaen) is pacing back and forth but floating. “It won’t stop. Ach. I can hear it. It’s speaking to me, I can hear it.”
