                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Group Gold Sheet for common loot split 5 ways (There are 5 of us) https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VzDzxhuX3_yHusBrhzBk5yxD8YG3prSQBbwhLZzPE8M/edit#gid=0



Total Gold Remaining:
9778.2
Gross Gold
18633.2



Aerin
2631.3
Finella
3104.3
Ozmenth
2386.3
Tam
1656.3



Dragon Shard Tracking:  
Shards earned (total): 8
Shards spent: 5 (Tam 2, Aerin, Finella, ozzy)

Quest Tracking
General/World
Catachesma cult stuff
Go to Sharn
Go to Wroat - Explosives being shipped there
Ylla found address and residence of one of the workers
Steal Flavius’ Diary
We think it’s in a secret space between rooms at the mayor’s house
Bring the diary to the Teemo at the other bar
Got 25 gp
Deal with the cult that eats chubby soup
(progress: 5 of 7) Recover the seven seals and bring them back to Gendrick (tower in Sharn)
The seal of water - Amulet of thorns - Material Plane
Bog Witch at Blackwater Lake
Fight harpies to get wooden boy statue
Deliver wooden boy to witch
The seal of earth - Howling Peaks (border of Zilargo & Breland)
On a train that doesn’t stop traveling between Sturngate and Korrinberg
The seal of fire - Lake of Fire (demon wastes)
Get dragon shard from Gendrick for this
The seal of truth - Daanvi
Daanvi is the plane of order: Manifest zone to go to Daavni is in the jungles Xendrick
The seal of waking - Irian
Plane of positive energy or the “plane of the eternal dawn”: Manifest zone is in Aeranel- city of the dead
The seal of sleep - Dal Quor
Dal Quor is the realm of dreams and was closed off (manifest zone destroyed) because the giants thought the creatures there were trying to invade: Manifest zone is gone. Need ritual of astral projection
We need a kalishtar to enter the dreamland
Help Fulla to retrieve her dream anchor (dragon shard thing taken by some dude and sold to house Fijarland)
The seal of madness - manifest zone in Xoriat
Plane of madness: Don’t know where the manifest zone is
Contact Mordenkainen again in one month… on the 14th of whatever month is past lumbar.
Contact Mordenkainen again after the next seal has been collected
Sharn
House Cannith may be restarting the forges of creation. 
Largest hq in Breland is in Sharn- go there to investigate
Woodhelm
Get law enforcement to find dagger
We threw the dagger in a cave with some wolves and a dead guy (calling this one done)
Do good at cards and win poker
Card game at the Wunderbar 
Find woodworker for the blacksmith Braw Grange
Wroat
Capt. Ashpeak: Poachers in Wroat
Take care of the poachers - 20 gp/ea
Peldron Melaur
Ozzy knows Peldron as Jorth - we can go visit him at his house (art collector dude)
Artifacts from the Mohr Holds for a guy (we have his card)
Capt. Ashpeak (Wroat capital): prevent the shipment from Droaam from getting to Karnath
Ship crashed on route, prevented ship from exploding & the prince from dying. Delivered the prince back to the castle.
The Mournlands
Go get stuff in changeling kid’s house (maybe a Kyber dragon shard)- in the Mournlands
Droaam
Go to see Blackwater lake (the water is black)
Sheshka: gather evidence of gargoyles being bad [worth a dragonshard]
Church of Silver Flame or House Phiarland (Thrane)
Return breastplate we found in Roc nest at Lake of Fire to church or House Phiarlane
Shopping List 
Scroll of Water Breathing
Scroll of Greater Invisibility
Scroll of StoneSkin
Scroll of Dimension Door
Scroll of vitriolic sphere
Scroll of wall of fire
Scroll of black tentacles
Scroll of fear
Scroll of mirror image
Scroll of Spider Climb
Winged Boots
Broom of Flying
Ring of Spell Storing
Pearl of Power
Scroll of Telekinesis
Scroll Scrying
Scroll of Dominate Person
Scroll of Animate Objects
Scroll of Seeming
Scroll of Bigby’s Hand
Scroll of teleportation circle
Potion of Speed (Haste)
Oil of Sharpness
Potion of Healing (regular - Supreme)
Potion of Flight
Potion of Invulnerability
Potion of Resistance to X
Potion of Firebreath
Potion of Heroism










Feb 5, 2026
We play laser tag…

The Groovy Boys cheat and they beat us 7 on 4. It sucks.

Jan 18, 2026
Ozzy puts on the crown…

Morticainen sounds different and had deviated septum surgery. He says that he’s 90% certain that Vekna is trying to perform a ritual of “unmaking.” This is bad. He’s been contacted by Lady Illustriel (Silverhand) and Tasha (?) and they believe the same. He thinks that casting “wish” will disrupt the spell forever… this is dangerous because the barrier needs to be very thin for this to work. Vekna is a lych.

Got a real guardians of the galaxy type of thing going on

Gendrick has secrets (he may or may not have been seen in photos with epstein). These secrets have immense power. Do not expose secrets, we may need to use them in other ways. 

Tam hit on a history check on mordenkainen (here by MK) - he found a book that he had never heard of before. He thought it was some sort of fantasy novel thing. The detail which they describe things, even the citations in it led you to believe it was real. It described a realm called the “Far Realms”. These names were all mentioned in this book, MK is a powerful wizard, Tasha is a wizard, Lady Illustriel is a wizard.

Went to Gendrick’s house - He’s pretty mid and lives on that tier. Door looks fixed up. Mending fixed it up a bit. No disturbance obvious… several open books. Just looks like standard mess. There’s definitely ants. 

There’s no one here. Ozzie blew out a candle and Gendrick came falling out of the sky. We’re now reporting back to G about the conversation with Mordenkainen. 

We sit down for story time: Gendrick is 917 years old - He has an illusion spell on him of some kind. He is a member of a group called The Chamber. The Chamber is a group of dragons that come from a place called argonssem (sp?). Vague dead-sea scroll like oracle shit. It is pretty fungible though, so you can save JFK and the scrolls will change.

He’s been tasked with an unclear portion of the prophecy with the daelkir and also with the azothoth. Progenitor dragons fight leads to stars + dragon shards. Third dragon becomes the world and another dragon in the underworld. Azothoph is a dreamer who doesn’t believe the reality of the world. He’s on the plain of madness. His first dream led to the plain of dreams (can’t remember). He can’t come through on his own. He needs his avatar to get people to open it allow him through. He’s had lot of names… Vekna being one… G thinks Catechesma is the latest one. Azothoph doing the unmaking and breaking seals and stuff is basically the end of the world because the realm of madness merges on in. G is here to stop this.

We’re going to take the train to Korrenberg. Our train tickets leave in 1 days. The order of the train: Engine>Passenger>Dining>Sleeper
Then we’re taking a boat (leaves weekly) to the Gulf of the Moon to Shae Cardel. Then we will walk to Shae Mordai (city of the dead). We need to leave Rudy behind.

Islands of Aerenal: elves, jungly, rainforesty. Some people like it. Buggy and hot. Some tigers. Ruled by the Arenal elves - diverged from the Valenar elves (still not totally friends) but mostly ok (they don’t like trash talking). Have their own nobility. Try to be as cordial as possible. Gain permission to access the manifest zone - speak to nobility to find out what is needed. They will be able to tell that Finella isn’t one of them.

Plane of Positive Energy: most of the dangerous mechanics deal with minerals and radiant energy. Radiant damage might need mitigation. Large temperature swings. Pretty old trees. 

We’ll meet Gendrick back in Sharn after.

Gendrick gives us some magic items. We go back to the fancy hotel.

The concierge pulls us over and hands us a sealed envelope… it’s an invitation to a laser tag tournament this evening. “If you are truly the Reel Heroes you will show up to defend your title.” - The Groovy Brothers
Apparently Finella murdered someone at laser tag once, but it wasn’t in Sharn, so it should be fine.

Laser tag is down 2 levels in the old ruins that are getting cool again. Arcade and movie theater and laser tag. It’s dark and gritty and there’s a lot of people. It’s lit up and bright. “Tag UR it” is the laser tag place.

Ozzy throws open the doors and yells for the Groovy Brothers. All of the lights go out as we enter…

Jan 10, 2026
Tam: fitful night sleep, and he wakes up and he’s back in the Demon Wastes. He’s himself and has access to spells. It’s twilight - the sun has set behind the volcano. He notices he’s in a camp, people are milling around, but he doesn’t recognize anyone. A young, handsome man says “Soldier! What are you still doing up?” He’s wearing the breastplate we brought back to Sharn. Tam warns him about the Rocs. We learn that Jasper set the route (??) and told everyone there would be no Roc activity. Jasper is in the command tent. Tam casts invisibility so he can explore the camp more thoroughly. He doesn’t think anyone saw him (?). He hears Jasper talking about locations of different tribes - the other guy mentions that one of them is aggressive, and Jasper says it shouldn’t be a problem… Tam thinks that’s suspicious. Once they leave, Tam goes to see the map - they’re going to go close to the Roc’s nest, but it’s not on the map. Tam adds the real nest to the map perfectly. While he’s doing that, he finds a letter to Jasper that warns of an aggressive tribe with a map. Tam goes to leave the letter where Captain Dingle will find it (on a ward)... when the Carrion Tribes start ambushing the camp!! Tam sees a dim figure running away… and he wakes up (unsure what time).

Finella: she wakes up and sees what seems like a torture chamber… she’s strapped to a table and there’s a hooded figure standing over her “WHO SENT YOU!?” 

Lord Arvin, Lady Maelis, and Tavian are at breakfast. Tam searches for Finella and finds that she’s been taken to the basement… which has been supposedly closed, according to Lord Arvin. We find a secret staircase in a fireplace and head down into the basement.

Tam sends an eyeball to explore. We find a shadowy figure, Ozzy turns into Arvin and talks with the figure. She says “he’s kidnapped her… I don’t know what to do. You told me to protect the family.”

The hooded figure says “she’s here to bring down the family, she’s from another house.” Ozzy argues with him. A pile of her stuff is in the room. Tam casts hypnotic pattern to give Finella time to get her stuff. 

Aerin casts detect thoughts:
Alaria: “What is he doing? What is Father doing? I didn’t think he knew about the dungeons!”
Jasper: “She’s going to bring us all down! Why are they here!? What do they want?”

Finalla stabs Jasper and 2 suits of armor animate and come to fight us. Alaria tells us to run, the suits won't stop. She says she’s going to take care of Jasper. He flees and she runs into the torture chamber. Tam cast’s storm sphere and it slows and electrocutes many of the suits of armor. Aerin chases Jasper. Ozy cuts down suits of Armor and Finella shoots their heads off. 
Another mysterious robed figure enters from the east.

The masked figure is Jasper’s wife. We chase them all out back into the main hall. Jasper confessed. He was convinced his secret of getting Captain Dimple killled was going to come out. Lord ‘Arvin cut off Jasper’s dragon mark and disowned him as a son. 

He gestured it toward Finella saying, “is this what you want?” Her response, of “eww no” was only briefly uttered before Ozy took the mark and put it in the bag of holding and the Reel Heroes left house Phiarlen asap. 

Jan 3, 2026
We wake up in the fancy hotel. The Sharn Suites, where we have a suite with 4 rooms. A lovely breakfast has been laid out for us.

Ozzy puts on the Morticainen crown and it said to call back later…

House Orien specializes in courier services and land transport. Their symbol is a unicorn. Baron Quantied Orien. Ozzy sends 150gp to his parents from the Concierge.

House Phiarland: Entertainment and spy services, elven, “Entertainers and Aritsans Guild”
Playhouse south side of river is where the family lives
The one down the street is playing “Beauty and the Beast”

We decide to head down a level to the main house (where they keep the money). We head to the elevator and down to the main level. We find a small playhouse connected to a large mansion. Tonight the “Dance of the 7 swords” is playing.

Ozzy changes his appearance into a fancier mode to help disguise his boots (from the dead guy).

Tam warns us that we shouldn’t outwardly address the spy part of House Phiarland’s expertise, but it can be alluded to (this gives us all advantage in social interactions with this house).
He also casts the ability for us to telepathically communicate for an hour as we go in. (it’s about noon)

We tell the guy who opens the door that we’re here to return some remains and we tell him where we found them. He closes the door and leaves us outside for 11 min. A larger gentleman in beautiful robes opens the door with a grave face.

The man tells us that the guy’s name was Captain Dimple. He left on a crusade nearly a hear ago. His name is Lord Arvin Phiarland and he invites us in. They don’t make carpets like this any more. He invites us to join the family tonight and at the show. Lord Arvin said his son Jasper told them that Captain Dimple gave his life so the rest could get away. Jasper was the only one who escaped.

Lord Arvin Phiarland
	Seems upset but happy for closure

Serrin: fiance of Captain Dimple
	Seems distraught about the death of her fiance. Sitting next to Jasper, still wearing her wedding band.

Lady Maelis Phiarland: Arvin’s wife
	Doesn’t seem to have much of a reaction- not very interested

Alaria: oldest child, neck mark
	Stone cold picking her fingernails with a small dagger

Tavian: middlest child (oldest son), wrist mark
	Seems shifty- keeps looking at Jasper and his father and Serin

Jasper: youngest child (eye mark)
	Seems stressed

Everyone is dragonmarked

Serrin excuses herself to go get ready for her performance of the “little bit sexy” Dance of the 7 Blades.

Finella follows Alaria up to her room and sees her open a chest for a bunch of knives. She thinks that’s really cool.

Aerin and Finella meet the Lady Maelis in her private chambers
Finella gets a nice dress with lots of pockets (11 not 12)
Aerin gets a poofy cupcake monstrosity

Ozzy and Tam find out that Jasper married Captain Dimple’s fiance a month ago. They ask about what happened when Captain Dimple got taken. He said they were taking the southern route. And there was a Roc. Jasper seems like a big idiot. He seems super shifty when Dimple’s name is mentioned and there are inconsistencies with the story. He gives them 12gp.

They (Ozzy and Tam) also decide that our group name was almost “Reel Heroes” but the hero is the sandwich.

We go to the show and we sit in the family box. Everyone is there.

The show is mostly amazing, but there are some odd mistakes in the second act. There are a lot of flips and sword throwing. The music is great. Serrin is incredible. Jasper is giving standing ovations often. “Isn’t she amazing? She’s spectacular.” Jasper argues with Finella about whether she can do the same flips.

Tam re-casts telepathy so we have it through the show.

Alaria seems bored and looking at the crowd more than the show. Tavian rolls his eyes when Jasper does standing ovations.

Serrin seems like something is on her mind. The show ends early and she has a cut on her hand.

Ozzy asks Tavian how he likes the show on the way out. He says he’s never seen her cut herself before. He said it might be because of bringing up her dead fiance.

Lord Arvin had prepared a feast. 

Lord Arvin implies House Cannith is responsible for the death of Captain Dimple. 

Alaria hands Finella a dagger. (Jordan will tell Kate about it tomorrow)

We are all shown to our rooms after drinking a lot. We dream of the dream world.

Tam wakes up early with a headache. The snoring has stopped and Finella is gone…

Dec 12, 2025
We land in Gendrick’s library…

Tam finds a Krampus Clause book and starts reminiscing about his favorite candlenights memory. He had a bad head cold and didn’t have to hang out with all his family. He looks longingly over at Finella and asks her what her favorite Candlenights memory was.

Finella got her entire family to do this awesome TikTok (elf hologram magic) dance. All the other elves liked it and it went “viral.” Her Grandfather’s Grandfather had a great kick move called the “Elrond” and he did it on beat and it was great. She hands the book to Ozzy.

Ozzy was a half-elf kid and their family didn’t have a great harvest… but his parents had hidden some food and made him a rhubarb pie even though they didn’t have much. There was some discussion about Ozzy’s Tiefling puberty and how awkward it was.

A message plays over the loud speaker: “the library will be closing in 30 min, please check out any items”

Out of the stacks where Tam found the book…
2 snakes come out to try to bite Finella
We kill them
Aerin turns into a big snake

Ozzy tells our librarian friend (an Aarakocra named Samala) that we got attacked by snakes in the stacks. She gives a dirty look to Finella. Ozzy rides Aerin away.

We find Gendrick and tell him where we’ve been. He gets really calm when he sees Tam’s injury and touches the scar with 2 fingers. “I’ve seen this before, when I was in the Mournlands. It’s not good.” Tam says it’s better than full time death… Gendrick asks if it really is. He asks about a contract, which Tam confirms.

Ozzy tells Gendrick about the dream. It seems like maybe we changed the truth?

He also tells him about the mix-um-ups where we were in each others’ bodies and the last trial where we fought the dream conductor who was trying to get the seal for Katechesma.

Tam hands over the seal to Gendrick. He hands over a dragonshard.

We level up to level 9!!!

We got attacked again by a couple snakes. Finella crushed them.

Gendrick is worried about sending us to the plane of madness, but the seal of waking should be up next. There is a manifest zone for the seal of waking in Shae Mordai (the city of the dead) on the islands of Aeranel. He asks if we have other things to do.
Ozzy asks about Mordacanin and the crown (call next time)
Go to House Phiarlane to return the breastplate we got in the Roc nest
Ozzy needs to send money to his parents - one of the houses can help with that… Gendrick can’t remember
We could go shopping (Tam made a list)

We asked to stay with Gendrick and he said no, so we go to the fancy inn to visit Rudy Too.

Gendrick will give us a list of supplies we need for our next adventures.

We fight 3 wolves on our way out of the library and the Aarakocra kicks us out. We find Rudy (??) on the way out of the Free Library. Several people tip their hats to Ozzy as they walk by… it’s WEIRD. Ozzy changes to his human form.

We take Rudy to the fancy inn. The concierge greets us and says we’ve had Rudy here the whole time… they take him back to his stable. They bring us up a feast with wine and ale and food and we head to bed.

We’ll find out about our dreams next time…

Dec 6, 2025
Echo says he has an opening in a few minutes in a different room…

We learn a little more about Tam’s contract. Ozzy is dealing with seeing his memory of his worst day.

Echo says the rite of negotiation has been swapped out for a different “special” rite. The Rite of Shared Dreaming? Something about a seal… to unearth the seal?

A blue door opens in the space 30 ft behind Echo’s desk. We can see a room with hospital beds.

The ceiling stretches off into infinity. The beds are arranged in two circles of 6 with the patients (Kalishtar) heads at the center. Some sourt of silvery cable is connected in someway to each of their heads and the cables lead to a terrifying figure in the center. 

His voice is incredibly raspy and he asks us if we’re here for the seal. But he doesn’t have a tongue (?) so the voice isn’t coming from him.

We realize that we’re not the only ones looking for the seals… Chatachesma has minions looking for them to.

He says he’s aligning the dreams to open the seal. “Touch them and they’ll die”

Fulla knows how to realign their dreams - we should touch them. We have to deal with them before we deal with him.

The guy calls himself “The Dream Conductor.”

We jump into dreams when we touch the dreamers, and have to save the people in them.

Finella did a tik tok dance and saved/killed the guy. The tendril that was connected to the conductor wilts. Aerin recalled their dungeon knowledge and leads their Kalishtar to safety. Their tendril dissipates. Tam recalls his knowledge of rivers and guides his Kalishtar to safety. Their tendril disappears. Fulla tries to enter two dreams at once and takes psychic damage as it tears her mind in two. Ozzy helps a child in a forrest. Finella helps someone jump off a cliff. Aerin helps someone find a surprise birthday party. Tam helps someone find a game of chance to play. Fulla helps someone who is chopping wood understand they have enough. Aerin does a bad job helping someone get out of a burning building. Ozzy is unhelpful in cheating at a game of Go. Aerin does bad at shoveling.

“You may think you’ve defeated me, but you don’t have a living dream anchor any more… you’ll never get the seal”

Fulla says she can be a living dream anchor… we ask if that will hurt her. She reaches up and tendrils fully wrap around her and a door opens.

A shining ball of light floats out to Tam and solidifies into the seal. Looks like a glowing blue d8.

“Close your eyes - go now and take the seal with you” Aerin thanks Fulla and runs through the door and Tam and Ozzy follow after saying thanks. Finella follows.

Everyone wakes up in the dusty stacks of a library. Tam realizes we’re in the library where we met Gendrick for the second time. He also finds the book he was looking for. “Look what I found!” (we’ll find out next time)

Nov 20, 2025
Tam died last time? But then he was back…

The guy at the desk ushered us to the second trial but Fulla found a weird hallway with creepy people with their eyes pinned open. The desk guy said something is wrong and wanted us to go into the next trial more quickly.

We walk into a mirrored room and there are lots of reflections and we realize we’re trapped in someone else’s body…

Pillar 1: Arcana check. Runes with spells and other magika
Ozzy did rad stuff to combine all of the runes and shut down the pillar!

Pillar 2: faint silhouettes with people standing back to back, curved speech bubbles above each person’s head - like a conversation happening between them. Skill check to disable the pillar, but unsure
Ozzy persuaded the pillar to crumble!

Pillar 3: Cracks and damage, claw marks everywhere. Some sort of strength or athletics check. 
Fulla hit it hard and it crumbled!

Pillar 4: Lots of eyes. Creepy as hell.
Not a perception check (Aerin got hurt - ow)
Not an investigation check (Ozzy got hurt - ow)
It IS an insight check (Aerin got it!)

Finella/Tam determines that there’s a door and we rush out… Aerin is last out and closes the door.

Echo asks us how the reflection room was. We told him what happened.

We completed the second rite!
1st rite: rite of lucid dreaming
2nd rite: rite of inversion
3rd rite: rite of negotiation

Something weird is still going on… Echo says it’s under control. It doesn’t seem like he’s lying, but it seems like he’s being controlled and he isn’t the same person we talked with when we were here before. “Perhaps we should wait until next time for the rite of negotiation…”

Nov 9, 2025
We’re in Dalkor and it’s weird.

Ozzy has a dazzling kiss with a bridesmaid. 
The fight is going pretty rough. Tam hits a fireball Finella is getting wrecked. The mage dueling Tam from the far roof lands a couple hits on him and eventually he goes down. Rudy goes down too. Tam nat ones his second death save and dies. :(

Finella went down, but Fulla fed her a potion and saved her.  

Tam’s body disappears. All the streetlights go out and Finella and Aerin hear water. We walk towards the water.

There’s a waterfall (it’s actually falling this time from a very high cliff). It’s falling into a pool with lily pads with axylotls sitting on them. One of them starts saying “Oz!?” “Ozzy!”

Fulla talks to the Axylotl and it tells us to go to the desk after we say we want Tam back. There’s a desk off in the distance and there are 2 figures at a desk. One of them is Tam?? The other figure (Echo, the guy from the desk before) gestures for us to wait. He’s walking Tam through a long contract… he signs it and now has a scar and used spell slots. The figure asks Ozzy if he enjoyed his memory and said he successfully changed his memory. The memory was changed so that was good. Oz mentions that the memory was very different. And the man is concerned and check with someone we cannot hear. 

Finella turns around and there are 12 hospital beds, each with a humanoid in it, with their eyes pinned open. She taps Aerin to look and there’s nothing there. The man is saying that something is wrong with his system.

We experience a full night rest after the guy does something and we close and open our eyes… it’s weird.

Aerin walks toward the door… they can see their own reflection like a hall of mirrors. They walk through the door. Aerin feels so angry… and is holding an axe, and sees Fulla in their reflection. Tam turns into Finella, Finella turns into Ozzy, Ozzy turned into Tam, and Fulla turns into Aerin.
Josh - Finella
Kate - Ozzy
Dustin - Tam
Noelle - Aerin

Oct 8, 2025
As our eyes adjust to the light, it looks like we haven’t moved… 
But we only see clear solid rock ground with swirling black/purple in all directions in a white void

Ozzy says “echo” and we hear a different voice that says “echo!”

From what little we’ve read, this could be Dal’Kor (the black/purple swirling). Fulla isn’t sure, it’s been a while since she’s been here. She suggests we start walking.

We find a waterfall where the water goes up! Ozzy and Tam throw rocks at the waterfall and the waterfall shatters and bunnies fall out. They run away and jump up onto a wooden desk. When Fulla gets closer, they morph into a guy with bunny ears. Fulla asks who he is, and we all hear a voice that says “Echo!”

Aerin and Fulla can see that he’s writing what is happening to us.

1st rite: rite of lucid dreaming
2nd rite: rite of inversion
3rd rite: rite of negotiation

A door appears…

Finella walks through on her hands (??). We appear in a bar with animals and poker chips. Feels very familiar to Ozzy.

Aerin notices they are a spider, crawling around on shoulders and telling Ozzy about cards, and he’s cleaning up. Fulla is drinking people under the table and has pockets full of coins. Finella is shooting arrows into a dart board and winning money. Tam is invisible. Things are winding down. No one but Ozzy feels like they’ve been there before.

The bartender is named Barnard… apparently he knows us. He keeps calling Ozzy NED and said something about catching the eye of “Grellness.” “He made it pretty certain if you didn’t leave town he’d make you leave town.” He asked if we were still staying at the Hickenloper Inn. RUDY is here!

We head outside… Ozzy checks out a window/mirror to see what he currently looks like. He sees that he looks like Ed Sheeran. This was an alias Ozzy used called Ned Heershan. Grellness was a sheriff here and ran Ozzy out of town in suspicion of murder. This was Rudy donkey #1 (Grellness killed him). We look around and things appear as Ozzy says them… a donkey appears. It’s very dark. We skip back and forth in time a bit.

We hear “By order of the crown watch, you are all under arrest”

Sep 21, 2025
Fulla is guiding us around an entryway to the dream realm. She warned us that it is dangerous to sleep when we’re in a dream…
Ozzy wakes up and looks in a mirror and he looks old. Lost 1 hit die.
Aerin is being chased and is late and they wake up in a cold sweat. Disadvantage on initiative today.
Tam is sinking in ooze and its making it hard to breathe. Disadvantage on 1st concentration check.
Finnella has a Quori in her mind… it tells her the party is betraying her and that she’s the only one who knows what’s going on, but she might have to kill her friends. 1d6 psychic dmg, disadvantage on next WIS save.
Fulla sees an old friend. Inspiration.

4 bad guys surrounded us while we slept. We killed them.
After the fight we heal up Fulla and start working our way through the dream labyrinth. Doors are disappearing, rooms are materializing out of no where. 

We find a library and the following books stand out to Tam:
Cartographer’s Guide to Impossible places
	Could help you figure out where the door is
	Safer option
Treatise of the slumbering mind
	Interesting but not related to our quest
Architectures of the Impossible
	Could help you figure out where the door is
Dangerous option

Fulla opens the cartographer’s guide. There’s a map to the rest of Fulla’s mind. Shows a small door on the North side of the room (bookshelf slides out of the way). Beyond that is a massive chamber with 4 pillars. Fulla feels like this is where the quori spirit is.

We keep The Old Man in the Sea. (When opened a wave crashes out of it.)

We exit from the library into a big room with pillars that is glowing purple… we fight a multi-phase quori bad guy and Finella goes down. But we ultimately survive the day downing the boss. The room begins to rumble and the acid pours from the cracked walls. Fulla’s pendant begins to vibrate and glowbrightly and we all huddle around her and wink out of the shuddering room.  

Aug 30, 2025 (& 8/31 & 9/1 at Snow Mtn Ranch for DND camp)
Catechesma cult is trying to get keys to unlock Balashera (sp?) and Catechesma. We’re trying to get keys so they can be destroyed by Gendrick.

We have 4 seals (see above)
We have 3 left: seal of waking (plane of eternal dawn), seal of dreaming (plane of dreams), seal of madness (in xoriat)

We took over a fort, we found cool stuff, we went under the fort into the tunnels back into Breland to meet up with Gendrick. 

Always look a sale horse in the mouth.

We get a reward from Braw Grange (2 ingots of iron) for pretending to send him a woodworker.

We show up at the tavern to meet Gendrick. He’s sitting with a human-looking woman (who has pink hair and a gigantic maul). We go to sit with them and Ozzy goes to get drinks after dropping off the scarab.

We meet a kalishtar (humanoid who fuses their spirit with one of the quori from the plane of dreams). Quori who have been separated from their human hosts can possess humans. She was a member of a collection meant to retrieve an item, it was not successful. Many of her party died by being killed to death with knives. The Dreaming Dark (also called inspired agents) has been hunting her (rogue quori who are looking for a host) to wipe out any evidence of this mission.

We’ll help Fulla get her dream anchor (in a vault in Thrane), return to her dream, kill the inspired agent, then we can enter the Dalkor and she can guide us to the key. She hasn’t been inside but she knows where the entrance is - strongly protected by magic and Fjarland guards.

We head to gather intelligence at the vault in Thrane. We take the lighting rail to Sword Keep in Thrane. Tam explains about house Fjarland. House of entertainment and spies. Stealing and espionage. Fulla points out where their base of operations is (a playhouse). She points out the back entrance in an alley (to the vault). 2 massive Fjarland guards (6ft-something guys with black robes, red interior with metal armor and serrated spears). Someone comes by every 10 min. 

Ozzy becomes a drunk and wanders down the alley and takes a piss on the wall nearby. The guards come to block the way but no interactions.

The back door is guarded magically with a glyph of warding. If opened without using the password it will explode. 

Somehow Finella has convinced a performer (Lethin) that she is part of one of the productions… she goes into the building and leaves everyone behind. Lethin is trying to get into house Fjarland. He says he’s seen some weird stuff going in and out of the back entrance that’s guarded. Finella goes to get on stage, the rest of us go into the main entrance to watch Finella in a play.

Aerin and Fulla sit on either side of this guy who seems fancy. He kinda hits on Aerin and it’s weird.

Finella strangely kills it on stage (kinda, she doesn’t get kicked off).

Aerin and Fulla bring Tam and Ozzy with them as the man (Broggle, means “potato”) leads them to the vault. He pulls back a curtain and beckons us into a small chamber. There’s a guard who he bribes to bring us into the vault. He waves his hand on the door and a glyph of warding disappears and it opens into a large circular chamber (there’s a map!). Brogle steps off the carpet and immediately goes unconscious.

3 masks: white happy face, black sad face, clown mask- Tam takes the masks off and the light that was shining on it goes out.
Tam spends some time to find out that he shouldn’t put on the clown mask
Tam finds a similar magic “vibe” for the black mask

Tam tells Ozzy to put the black mask on - lights shoot out of the eyes and mouth and hit the door and it slides open.

We bring the masks with us.

We’re in the arcane conservatory. Vines and crickets and bird noises.

Symbols on rings in dragon mouths: Rose, mask, pocketwatch, quill, knife

We kill a guy and a couple dancers in a room and get a mask. The mask is a porcelain white one with eyes and mouth holes.

We find a clockwork room with a clockwork dragon. Fulla makes it through the clockwork room by jumping from gear to gear and gets to the box in the room back by the dragon. She gently opens the box and gets a quill.

Tam dispels the magical darkness in the next room. There were 4 pinpoints of light on the back wall. If you step into the door it will seal behind you. We go into the room and line the lights up so they turn into a dagger constellation.

Finella kicks open the last door and the Beetlejuice desert landscape is on the other side. There are two suits of plate armor with bright sun ray eye holes. We jump through the door to fight them. They’re kinda hard and we get 2 watches.

We configure the rings in the dragon head based on the diagram below: 

They reconfigure to match the seal of house Fjarland and the door opens.

Fulla tells us not to touch anything in the vault- she doesn’t see her thing in here. We go through the vault to the next door - she sees it in there. We see a dragon shard and some other stuff too. Fulla tells us if you touch something that isn’t bonded to you it’s likely to set off an alarm.

Fulla goes to grab her dream anchor… she starts to enter the dream scape! We grab onto her (and Ozzy grabs a gauntlet, triggering an alarm) as we enter Fulla’s dream foyer.

We come back to consciousness, lying on the floor holding hands in the same room. It feels different (colors are both more muted and more vibrant). The columns are textured, but we can’t see it when we look closer.

Ozzy inspects the gauntlet. It looks cool but he can’t tell what it is. Fulla puts it on and it fits perfectly. It’s a fingerless gauntlet. Tam says it’s an item called “Dreamrender” - if you get a killing blow you regain 1 use of your rage per day. When you’re not raging, you can do an extra 1 d4 psychic damage.

We’re in Fulla’s Dreamscape, not in Dal’Kor. She got her dream anchor. We’ve agreed to help Fulla kill the inspired agent and then we’ll go get the seal in Dal’Kor.

Fulla walks through the door… there’s a hallway with 7 doors. The dream anchor is calling her to the left… there is danger to the right. She approaches the first door on the left and the rest disappear. She hears a small train sound. She kicks in the door and we peek through. The outside of the room we see is lined with bookshelves from floor to ceiling. The ladder is rolling back and forth along the wall and making a “chu-chunk” sound like a train. There are 3 exits that aren’t obvious, but panels will open in the bookshelf on 3 sides of the room. Finella notices 3 books as she rides the ladder around. She grabs at the first one - “Worlds of Nothing,” the second book is “The Lhazaar Prophecies,” and the third one is “Protective Magics.” Finella falls off the ladder and gets a little hurt.

Tam investigates the books.
Worlds of Nothing: Tam rolls well and the door to the south clicks and cracks open.
The other two books disappear

We open the door and walk through. We hear faint crying of a small child. There are cribs lined up and babies in each crib. Everyone sees themselves as a baby in a crib. Fulla picks up her baby self. This feels familiar but one of the babies seems wrong… Finella realizes that 2 of the babies are Burbalangs, not babies! We kill the baby Ozzy and baby Finella.

The next room has a bunch of stairs going up into the distance. Fulla remembers this from a previous dream but it’s changed…
Tam points out the door we should go through and opens it before diving to the side. There is a carousel from Fulla’s childhood, but some creatures are aberrations. There are two quori spirits riding these aberrations. We kill the guys and find a door in the middle of the merry-go-round.

The new room has a floor that has a mirrored glass finish that reflects the ceiling that’s a turbulent ocean 60 feet up. Aerin falls down/up into the ocean… Finella grabs Aerin before she falls up. There’s another door. 

The next room has seasons against each wall. There’s a door on the spring wall. Fulla reaches for the handle of the door and the vines totally encase her and ask for a spring memory. She shares one and disappears through the wall. Aerin shares a winter memory and passes through the wall. Finella shares a fall memory and gives it up and disappears through the wall. Tam shares a summer memory and disappears through the wall. Ozzy looks for a door and finds one on the winter side… he shares a winter memory and passes through the wall. We all end up together in a long skinny room.

Small beds and many masks in the next room. Ozzy finds an old-lady Finella mask. Finella looks at it and in a few seconds sees a full life. Tam identifies some illusion magic coming from the mask. Fulla looks at her mask and sees a gaunt face and a short timeline from lack of sleep. Fulla is a bit freaked out by this. Ozzy looks for his mask, there are 3 that could be him. One is a man who becomes a business leader with many rings, one is a beggar asking for alms, one is a man on a porch whittling wood and follows a woman into the woods.

Tam creates a hut to sleep in, so we settle down for a long rest.



May 27, 2025
Tam gets inspiration for dynamite’ing.

Ozzy sneaks up to the top of the stairs while he’s still invisible to check out what’s up there and then we head into the secret room. The room has some boxes and some stairs leading down. Dino Aerin detects heat coming from the stairs… they suspect it leads to the tunnels.

We search the bodies and find a ring of keys. Jordan will get back to us with a list of cool stuff that we find. Don’t forget.

Finella graffitis a bunch of inappropriate stuff in the storage room and she and Ozzy “interrogate” the guys in the cells by shooting arrows at them. They get convinced to not be dicks to the town and the poker games.

Rumors about the tunnels: There’s a lava worm who ate some guys… if you can get rid of the lava, then the lava worm becomes less dangerous.

We head down into the tunnels after letting the prisoners go. There are 3 separate legs of the tunnel, some have lava, all but one have levers, and the one without a lever has a lava worm 🙁

Tam casts hypnotic pattern and we finally figure out the really hard lever puzzle and drain the lava from the tunnel. Ozzy summons a barlgura and it fights the worm for a while and is terrifying. We sneak past the worm and walk for hours through the tunnel and emerge in the forests of the Eldeen Reaches.

We take a nap in Tam’s hut and spend some time looking through our loot!

May 17, 2025
We continue fighting the orcs in the keep. Tam slows them which is comical and effective. They do hurt us quite a bit, which is annoying. We cast a few fireballs which sets most of the keep on fire. WE finish off that room, but one of the casters flees. Ozzy runs back around to a door that was revealed to check it and there are enemies coming out. He calls for help and the others come running. A combination of storm sphere, call lightning, and darkness take care of most of them and Finella peppers many of them with arrows. Eventually the group from the other room comes back with reinforcements. The group is able to close a door blocking them from attacks momentarily. We take the time to heal and Tam places a dynamite bomb by the door. As they run through Tam pops it with a fire bolt catching all of them in the blast radius. Its a massive explosion and it deletes one of the enemies (yay!). We finish off most of the guys with lightning strikes and an invisible Ozzy (Tam used his scroll of greater invisibility). Aerin is a dinosaur.

May 10, 2025
We attempt to long rest while Harold yells at us while making biscuits. He asks Ozzy about why we’re in Burning blade. We explain we were attracted to the card games and feats of strength.

He explains that his grandfather helped carve the famed tunnels that go under the lake of fire and down under the Shadowcrags back into the Eldeen Reaches. Entrance is in the basement of the Burning Keep and it sounds like those jerks from last night are the ones who have taken over the keep. They’re apparently former Gashkala members who have taken up stealing and murdering- they may have a nice horde of treasure to take back.

We pass underneath the Fire Roc’s nest and it attacks us. We kill it and continue on. We travel slowly in the heat. We make it to the Burning Keep at twilight. 2 story castle- large square footprint with a smaller second story with a large rotunda with windows all along the outside (likely for lookouts).

We get to the Burning Keep and make it to the front door without arousing attention. It’s smelly inside. There are no Gashkala flags (this was an old keep that was taken over by them at some point), so “The Desserters (sic)” could definitely have taken it over.

Ozzy turns into the dead guy and tries to scare the 4 dudes in the entry room. There is lightning and spikey growth and a lot of murder. Guys go to get other guys who then get confused and stab meat in the kitchen before also dying. Some guys run away. Ozzy looks like Abon (guy we killed) and he’s smoky fire crazy looking so he keeps running into rooms to confuse/scare the hell out of the guys in the keep. It’s pretty great. Aerin has cast moonbeam (3rd lvl) and has 

Apr 20, 2025
After a while, we hear the door get kicked down in the room next door and some rummaging. “It’s not here- check the other room.”

Our door gets kicked in, Ozzy wreathes himself in shadowflame, and part of the hut becomes clear so Tam can moon the baddies. We kick the crap out of the guys… We’re safe in the tiny hut and the bedroom while they get melted by a moon beam and a storm sphere. We kill one and then 3 of the 4 run away. Ozy stuff’s the body in the bag of holding to dispose of later so bartender Harald doesn’t have to deal with it. 

We will decide next time whether or not to track these guys down.

Apr 16, 2025
Finella gets hurt badly by the Talon Beast… We kick it’s ass and then move toward the town.

We meet the gatekeeper. His name is Thornrender. He’s a half-orc. Most members of the town do not align themselves with either faction of the demon wastes. “I’d be careful at that game… Many people have lost more than money…” He tells us to check out the meat processing area… they have targets made of carcasses.

There’s a cake (Harold made it). We set up a hut in the back room in anticipation of an ambush.
Mar 30, 2025
We pass the scarab around and notice an inscription.

Aerin turns into a large flying dinosaur and Tam casts fly on Ozzy and himself. We fly down to the Roc nest (Aerin carries Finella, Tam and Ozzy fly down). We see some Roc babies picking at an elven corpse. It has the crest of the Church of the Silver Flame (anti were-creatures). The boots on the corpse look amazing.

Ozzy grabs a coin purse and shoves the body to the side. Tam and Ozzy each grab a boot. They’re footprint boots. Finella and Ozzy distract the baby birds and they take some big bites out of Finella. We all roll poorly but we eventually loot the whole nest. Finella spots the Roc returning and we decide to flee. 

The scarab’s inscription: “The holder is protected against the forces of death”

It’s a Scarab of Protection (requires attunement). You have advantage against saving throws. It has 12 charges, if you fail a save against a necromancy or undead spell, you can expend a charge to pass instead.

Breastplate is a classic breastplate of a higher level member of the Church of the Silver Flame. They were likely on their pilgrimage. Mundane, worth returning to the church. Ozzy adds to the bag of holding and notes where we got it.

Coin purse: 320 gp worth of coin, and a mark of House Phiarland (the elven dragon marked house- main house in Thrane, they carry the mark of shadow, often hired as professional spies).

Tam tells us about the Burning Keep. There was a push to bring the Demon Wastes into Galifar. The king at the time set up a keep, and it was overrun ~1200 years ago. Gashkala now use the ruins as a keep. There are rumors that there are underground tunnels that run under the mountains through to the other side.

Tam casts divination to help us decide whether a journey to the Burning Keep would be worthwhile. “The keep is ruled by the Gashkala these days - no problems going to the keep, the tunnels are mostly full of lava, but might provide safe passage to the other side of the mountains.

Ozzy and Finella have heard about a bar in the Rotting Blade. There’s a longest running card game happening there (Ozzy is interested), there are also feats of strength and tournaments that happen there (Finella is interested).

The Rotting Blade would be more exposed, where as the Burning Keep is more protected. We decide to go to the Rotting Blade.

We find a big fire ant hill, but we don’t see any ants (which we find disconcerting). We decide not to disturb it and move by. We disturb the current residents- fire scorpions! We kill them after they kick Tam’s ass a little.

As we enter Rotting Blade, Tam turns Finella invisible. A creature detaches itself from the wall and approaches her… we’re going to fight a talon beast next time!

Mar 23, 2025
Middle of the night- we have left the Carrion Tribe camp after getting some really creepy vibes and then seeing a Rakshassa descend into our cabin as we fled.

We hike through the night to the sound of fire crickets and follow the lake of fire that we see glowing in the distance. Before we stop, we see the mountain. It’ll be >4000ft hike to the top. We set up the tiny hut and take an undisturbed rest.
Aerin and Finella sleep through the night.
Tam wakes up and walks out of the tent- but he’s not in the canyon. He walks down a hallway that feels familiar with doors on either side and extends forever. The doors have unrecognizable symbols. He tries a door… it’s a wasteland with a gothic castle way off in the distance. He shuts the door and wakes up.
Ozzy wakes up in a hallway in a castle he doesn’t recognize. He calls out “hello? Aerin? Finella? Tam?” He checks the first door on his left. It’s a picturesque green field and he hears horse hooves that get louder - there are many horses approaching. All of a sudden, an entire regiment of knights comes riding by with a red flag. The force of the horses slams the door.
Ozzy and Tam wake up and compare dreams… the hallway was exactly the same, but the dreams were different.


We hike up to the bottom of the mountain and start heading up it at about 11pm. We get ambushed by 4 giant fire beetles. We continue on and get to an exposed eastern side of the mountain. As we get around to the north, Aerin detects that there are bats up ahead. Bat Damon senses that they aren’t aggressive. We then see a large 15ft nest, we assume it’s a Fire Roc nest. Finella takes an invisibility potion and sneaks up to the nest to see what’s in it. She loots a decanter of endless water and the group sneaks past.  We detect lava and spurts of rock ahead - Bat Damon confirms but can’t see anything. A dragon/centipede creature bursts out and attacks us! Ozzy took it out and we crushed it.
Kate’s artwork:


We got three beads of fireball… distributed to finella, aerin and ozzy. 

“You can take a bead and throw it up to 60 feet away. When it reaches the end of its trajectory, the bead detonates as a 3rd-level fireball spell (save DC 15).”

We come up to the top of the caldera and see a massive bird take off… but we know it will return…

There’s a 15 ft wide ledge stretching out over the caldera about 45 ft. At the end of the ledge there’s a small cairn with a bronze beetle perched atop it. Tam’s unseen servant Billy goes to get the beetle. He manages to make it back to us despite the winds. Tam takes the scarab from Billy. It weighs about a pound. It’s eyes open and Tam levels up. He passes it around and we all level up!



Mar 16, 2025
We get some corn muffins from the villagers and head out on foot with our guide.

It’s crown day! Aerin guides Ozzy as he puts on the crown…
Mortakainen says there’s a link between the worlds. He asks what we’ve been doing and why the connection seems more clear. Ozzy explains about our seal adventure. He’s been seeing visions of gateways opening… maybe this is related. He can feel the worlds coming closer together. He’s apparently not in Ebberon. He’s on a different world/realities (not dimensions). He references fairytales and said they were real. Normally it’s ok to keep them separate, but you’re opening up gates/passageways between them as you remove seals. He doesn’t know Gendrick. Find an answer to this question: “what are the seals locking away?” Catechesma was a daelkyr (very ancient high-powered aliens).


Creation myth of Eberron: 3 dragons, 1 dragon killed the other, it’s body became dragon shards (and stars). Dragon 3 became the planet of Eberron and locked the killer dragon inside. Thousands of years later, the Daelkyr come and turn a bunch of the inhabitants into aberrations. A lot of trolls & other creatures that were there are now aberrations. Some gnomes in Mror Holds helped to lock away some of the Daelkyr. Gnomes that live there ride dinosaurs!

Darouk is suspicious of all of us…

Ozzy takes the crown off to make sure we aren’t playing pranks.

Mortakainen says he’s in a land called Greyhawk. We may have heard it in fairytales. He is a wizard and has imbued magic into items that allow communication. He’s trying to figure out what’s going on. Not sure what his goal is.

Darouk goes off to set up camp and we chat.
	Ozzy isn’t sure what’s going on or why we’re collecting seals
	Aerin thinks the cult wants to let daelkyr out, so that’s why they’re after the seals
	Tam says we have 2 options: keep going or retire and start the rest of our lives
	Finella doesn’t have any theories
* Let’s ask these questions next time we talk to Gendrick.

Darouk has prepared a feast for us. Absurdly delicious. We sleep comfortably under the stars within the perimeter of Darouk’s alarm wire setup.

During day 2 the forest starts to thin and we can see some snow capped peaks ahead. Finella sees a large black bird and shoots it. The bird turns in a big arc and gets very large as it approaches… a huge bird with flame-tipped wings swoops toward us. We hurt it and it flies away.

After a short rest we reach the foothills and make camp. Finella does a crazy salamander fire dance to make us dinner. We go to bed in the little hut Tam makes.
Tam dreams of walking through the castle where he grew up. He sees his parents and talks with them about his studies. “You really need to see professor Gendrick, he’s quite concerned about you.” he goes to talk with him in his study and there’s no one in there- just a pile of ash behind the desk.
Ozzy sleeps soundly through the night - no dreams and wakes up feeling refreshed.
Finella dreams of walking with her grandmother through the forest and she’s showing various hunting spots and points at a tree and describes the scratches on the tree and how to hunt here. All of a sudden Finella feels someone watching from behind and sees Ozzy standing there nodding and watching.
Aerin has no dreams and wakes up not sure where they are. It takes 10 sec to remember where we are and what we’re doing. There was a dream they can’t remember… there was a graveyard (?) maybe it was fake or a set for a play?

We have some Fireroc eggs and fresh baked bread for breakfast and then head off up the mountain. We all have fire resistant items so we’re ok as the rocks get hot. We approach the top of the pass, and there are two figures with spears at the top. We approach slowly and see they are orcs- 1 male and 1 female.

We discuss the paths that we have options for taking and it seems like the Carrion Tribes think that tieflings are gods, so we decide to go through the Labyrinth.

They give us a cartoony map of the Demon Wastes, and we say goodbye to Darouk. He cries a bit and it’s weird.

We head down the cliffs into the canyons of the demon wastes… very sharp and steep rocks. Tam and Ozzy fall on the way down and scrape themselves up pretty bad. We descend into the cliff dwellings of Maruk Dar. There are big elevators up and down from the town, and the guards help us find lodging at the local tavern. We spend the night there. Ozzy chats with an old orc named Omar - he says watch out for Shell Beetles. They’re medium creatures. You can hit them when they’re not in shell, more dangerous out of the shell though. Stay on the south side of the canyon, there’s more light and the firerocs next on the north side. Egg Hunters do poison/fire damage. They can destroy armor. Should be a half day before you can see the path up the side of the mountain, and then it’s easier. 

We head out just before dawn. Things go pretty well with following the map and we start to see the volcano around noon. We see a group of humanoid figures up ahead with dark leathery skin wearing loincloths, huddled around something on the ground.

They start to charge and then see Ozzy and then stop. They surround and pick Ozzy up and start carrying him off… they call him “Sakah” and say they’re taking him back to the tribe. The village is old and run down, but similar to the Goshkala village in structure and design - maybe an abandoned village? They bring him into a house with a large table and place him at the head. There’s a huge, massive rock sculpture of a Rakshasa that is beautiful. They put a large pill bug in front of Ozzy… Aerin reads thoughts and Ozzy places the bill bug in the lap of the Rakshasa statue “Tomak.” A curtain falls and then the bug disappears and everyone seems happy. There’s a feast and we join them in some pill bug. Ozzy shows the writ to Mohawk and he seems disappointed. He seems to want Ozzy to stay and help.

Ozzy leads the tribe away from the hut to a large round wooden donut structure hot tub and tells stories. He acts it out for those who can’t understand common.

Meanwhile Aerin, Tam, and Finella stay behind in the hut to find out who was behind the Tomak offering with the curtain. A creature comes out from the curtain, gnome sized with big ears. Aerin talks with him a bit. We learn that he probably used a trap door in the ceiling to pass the offering out.

They lead Ozzy to the nicest hut and there’s a disagreement with Mohawk about whether we get to stay together for the night. Eventually they relent and bring in chairs for us. We sneak out in the middle of the night. We put Ozzy in the bag of holding and sneak out. We look back and see a celestial figure descend through the roof into the building we were in. It appeared to be a rakshasa. It is likely subjugating these carrion tribes. 

We set up camp outside the town on our way to the lake of fire. Should be a day to the base and another half a day to the top.


Feb 21, 2025
We will get a bark writ from Oalian and we’re off to the Gloaming to cleanse a well there.

Ozzy jumps into a well… snakes start attacking and he jumps out of the well spectacularly with thunderstep and kills the snakes!

Tam detects that the water in the well is poisoned with some arcane poison. The tree we fought had necromantic magic on it… it was dead and the poison brought it back.

We fight a mammoth and Tam burns it with cobwebs. 

We also fight a “Uanti” (sp?) which is a double-headed snake thing and it has a pooping mouth and an eating mouth, a gorilla, a panther, and then we throw all 5 hearts into the well and a water elemental came out to fight us. Finella shoots it with a hold monster arrow and we totally destroy it and Jordan is sad.

At the bottom of the well, we find a seal of Catechesma that has been poisoning the water and the surrounding creatures and flora. We think Catechesma’s power is growing in the world. Tam holds it and is silenced.

We go back to talk to Oalian… it’s the middle of the night. Back in Greenheart we go to visit him right away. He is concerned by seeing the Catechesma seal and gives us a scroll (the bark writ).

He demands we leave as soon as possible. He tells us where to cross in the mountains. They can send us with a guide as far as the mountains, but they will not enter the demon wastes. He gives us a name from each tribe to show the writ:
Gashkala: Princess Zora
Carrion tribes: Cargath

We go to bed at Elder Letheen’s.

We will head to the mountains with our guide Darouk in the morning!

Feb 17, 2025
We are camping next to Lake Galifar and set up the creepy paintings to point at the Gloaming to protect (?) us/ the donkeys (?). Ozzy tries some night fishing in the lake…
Finella wanders while Ozzy fishes (accompanied by Aerin, who is interested in fish/animals and Tam, who is casting a ritual). Finella finds a Balruug (caterpillar thing)- they emit light every 15 sec… they quadruple in size and eat whatever tries to eat it. Their poison could be used to poison 2 arrows (1d6). Finella kills it and poisons her arrows (they glow neon green).

Ozzy catches a garr-looking fish… 12-16in long… many teeth. This is a Galigarr. Known for bottom-feeding and having lots of teeth. If we cook and eat it, it’ll give a +5 temp HP bonus. Might be able to sell the teeth.

Tam burns some incense and asks a question of the universe…
“Is there a guide to be found in Greenheart or the surrounding area that will help us get to the Lake of Fire.
Answer: “Your grit in getting to Greenheart may grant  you a writ, if you skirt the town, you get a frown”

Ozzy: “What do you guys think about Gendrick?” <deep discussion ensues>

We remember that Ozzy has a crown that we were supposed to wait a month to use again. It’s close, and when we head back we should do that.

Tam sets up our hut and he sets an audible alarm so we can all rest. Aerin doesn’t get a full rest because it’s so loud in the Gloaming.

We head towards Greenheart. Kinda… Finella is driving. Terrifying but actually effective. 

Greenheart is led by the Druids. Their spiritual leader is Oalian. Oalian is a druid being may be older than 4000 years and is possibly older than much of the continent. No commerce in druid culture- no tavern/inn/shops. It’s the capital of the area- 2k-3k people. Very welcoming culture - wear earth-tones and they don’t love metal. Ozzy wears a suit and tie made out of leather & furs.

As we arrive, we’re met by 2 guards with big headdresses. They ask us where we’re going, and we tell them. One of the guards is super annoying and lives with his mom. His name was Darouk. The other one is Phil (Fpfhil). Phil helps set us up with a place to sleep with Elder Latheen. There’s a feast tonight… we’re going to contribute our Galigarr meat to make Galigarr Potato Salad. It’s forbidden for druids to go, but Oalian is wise and loves to meet new travelers- he might be of some assistance. Phil offers to escort us to visit Oalian before the feast. Ozzy asks if there’s a road we can take into the Towering Wood, and if we should plan to take the cart. He says it may be safer to leave them here.

We go to Elder Letheen - she’s old but not frail. Tough outdoorsy lady chopping wood. We tell her we’ve been on the road from Xandrar - she went there when she was little with her father (who was a diplomat). We put the donkeys in the barn. The feast is in honor of us, apparently. There are very few visitors. There was a Goshkala visitor that came through previously who left and headed towards Droaam by way of Lake Galifar. He was a nice young man who was disowned when he left. Elder Letheen’s place has 3 buildings, barn, outbuilding where we are staying (comfortable but meagre), and her house with a kitchen and where she stays.

FPfhil comes to pick us up. He brings us to the far side of town (everyone is friendly and waving), and we go to a huge clearing with a large tree. He stops at the edge and motions you forward. Ozzy mentions that he saw the tree on our way in, and Fphil says “oh you’ve seen the great Oalian!” We step into the clearing and the branches lower and we see a face that welcomes us.
“I have been here since the creation of Khorvaire” 4187 years old
When he was young he was tasked with the creation of keys to lock away the Dalkyr. They are ancient beings from other worlds - not other planes, but Feyrune and Wildmount. They aren’t just fairytales - they are real. Elements from these worlds are needed to lock away the Dalkyr. He collected keys from these other worlds. The power of these keys are waning, which is why they are being collected. As the keys come back together, the other worlds will come closer - you must be wary of this and be prepared for when it happens. He wants to offer us a writ of safe passage through the Demon Wastes. It will allow passage through Goshkala and Carrion tribes. He asks us to help cleanse the well of the ancients in the village. Something has defiled the well, and the creatures that have drunk from it have been defiled as well. To cleanse the well: Kill 5 affected creatures, impale their hearts with branches from Oalian, and then put the hearts back in the well. The creatures you will face are aberrant and likely to poison you. The well is in the gloaming (oh no…).

The feast is potluck-style. Someone cooked our fish. They say a prayer to Oalian. We all gain 5 temp hp, and Aerin gets 3 portions for breakfast. Ozzy is very entertaining, so the feast is a hit. Tam asks about how to stay safe in the Gloaming before we go to sleep.
	Answer: Well friend, poison’s the name of the game… if you don’t want to get hurt, don’t get poisoned!

Ozzy has dreams of a half-mountain with no top. Red liquid pouring down the mountain - it explodes in a plume of lava and he wakes up (he slept next to the stove and it’s pretty hot). Don’t eat olive loaf before sleep.

Aerin dreams of traveling to another planes and ends up in a nebulous white area and no one else is there, but they hear the sound of fighting, but no matter where they walk the sound isn’t getting any closer. Then they wake up.

Finella dreams of hundreds of bats flying overhead… streaming bats are first terrifying and then it becomes soothing. She shoots a bat with her bow and it has the face of Gendrick.

Tam dreams of being at Lake Galifar. He’s fishing (which is weird, Ozzy was the one fishing…), and he catches a tadpole (?), and he takes it off the line and it has little legs… he sets it down and it walks back into the water. He looks back at the party, but it’s his family, and he looks back into the water and there’s a massive sea creature that waves at him that used to be the tadpole.

We have a nice restful sleep other than the dreams…

We are super bad at navigating through the Gloaming and are super scratched up by the time we find the well. The well looks and smells bad. We get attacked by a tree…

Tam pierces the poisoned tree heart after we take it down. Off to find the next tree! (and probably also heal Ozzy…)

Feb 11, 2025
Chaotic good candle of invocation - Tam
Three arrows of hold monster for Finella - DC 16
We head out from Sharn with our two donkeys, a carriage and a lot of fire resistant stuff. Our first night is planned to be spent in Galethspyre, but we make it further to Ardev.

We name the donkeys- Rudy Two and Donkey Too

We meet a friend who is an artist at the market. His name is Davos. We buy a couple of his paintings. He meets us at the bar to tell us about the Demon Wastes. His brother went there and never returned, but sent a single post card telling about the people there. He joined a cult - a carrion tribe devoted to Karachisma. He’d taken a vow of silence and never saw him again. He went to find them (when he went to the Gloaming, now he dreams of it every night). He never made it near the demon wastes - the Goshkala got to me first and turned me around. His brother’s name was Bryan (with a y). He brought us a painting. It looks the same - dark vertical shapes that look like they’re reaching out towards you.

We camp by the lake and test out something Hannah can’t remember. Ozzy’s fishing pole?

Feb 4, 2025
We search Deadlock (a deathlock) - we find a spellbook and a cloak of billowing (it billows). Finella took it.

We don’t feel great so we take a short rest with all of our bags of holding. The deathlock also has 2 notes: 1) 6 addresses all throughout Khorvaire (1 in each province except Karnath), 2) note in a language (Deepspeech) that Tam casts a spell to be able to read it:
“Our lady of Ilmaru thanks you for your service. These packages will cause great commotion among the nonbelievers.” 

We find an unsocial Wraith. It speaks Elvish. It says to leave it alone. It eats zombies that aren’t dead yet.

We leave the graveyard and take the 6 bags of holding with us. We head to an inn nearby. The proprietors are minotaurs. They’re immigrants from Droaam and grew up near the Demon Wastes. “You’re familiar with the inhabitants of the demon wastes, right?”
There are 2 main tribes in the demon wastes (Goshkala- they believe those who enter get “infected” in the demon wastes and take it upon themselves to ensure no one escapes. Karion Carrion? tribe is their enemy- each tribe selects a different demonic entity they worship) It’s like Australia- everything is trying to kill you. If the Goshkala “feel” you are infected, they won’t let you leave.

Goshkala a faction of mostly orcs and half orcs. Carrion is a group of thralls that have had their minds turned by the demons. 

Finella has too much spiked coffee and passes out at the table. Barkeep’s name is Astorian (Astor). He’s been running the inn (the Labyrinth Lounge) for 15 years. He’s never been to the lake of fire. It’s a big climb, and sometimes erupts.

We take a long rest and get a good sleep until 1pm.

We head back to Camus to let him know how things went. He sends us to his contact on the city council. They are thankful and ask a lot of questions. Who was the cult (Lady of Ilmaru), what did they look like, etc. Ozzy turned into one of them to show them. 1000 gold each, and then if there are no more events, come back for 500gp more. ( he said a fortnight, but did he really mean it?)

We discuss our path to the lake of fire- we plan on heading to Greenheart to ask around to see how to get to the lake of fire.

We use our dragon shards and buy some scrolls and arrows and potions.

Jan 23, 2025

Two bodaks attacked us at the beginning of the cave/crypt
We killed them, but then 4 other bodaks popped up, killed them too. Aerin turned into an octopus and we followed the two zombies down the hall (slowly). 
Found two more zombies, a deadlock, 2 revs, and 2 more zombies. Its a tough fight but we are victorious. 

We find 6 bags of holding. Probably zombies in all fo them. We find a schedule of robberies. Dates when crypts are going to be robbed. 

Pile or rings, broches, and other loot pulled off the zombies. There’s a signature of Lady Ilmaru. History check reveals she’s the fabled leader of the Emerald Claw. Some say they’re an extreme faction of the Karnathi (undead). The Karnathi would never claim them. It's unclear if lady Ilmaru (ILMARU) is real or just a boogeyman. There’s an address of where the loot is supposed to be delivered. 

We’ll loot the rest of the cave next time. 

Dec 21, 2024
We see what we can get for dragonshards. We found a kooky guy who can turn dragon shards into magic items.

We go to see Ozzy’s friend at the bar (Kaimus). “Would you be willing to take a job from the city?”
There’s been reports of grave-robbing. They think it’s a necromantic cult and having people guard them for the night would deter the criminals. They’re paying 700g/person (teams of 4). If you are able to find the cult and put an end to this, they’ll pay 1500gp/person.
No specifics on how we deal with the cultists- bring them in or put them down, as long as it’s “taken care of” we’re good.
Beggars can’t be choosers, so we take the job!
The Stevenson mausoleum needs guarding tonight (on the lower quarter)
We are given a key
Aerin has some questions
There have been robbings around the entire city, but most in the lower quarter
Most from mausoleums (easier than digging)
Weird thing- no sign of forced entry into the mausoleums- doors were still locked. The coffins were cracked and completely empty. No clothes or possessions and no 
Graveyards were the same- grave was dug up (no tools found) coffin was thrown open inside the hole and no sign of anything else.
Get there around sunset (7pm?)

We go there!

Tam tells us: King Gallifair united the nations and gave different regions to his children. The Stevensons (human) were a family that had given up rule of the Sharn region in exchange for lots of money.

Deck of cards in Ebberon: Strawberries, Princesses, Clubs, and ??

There are a bunch of coffins… skeletons start coming out
Foramen Sanderson’s grave makes a weird noise when we knock on it…


Dec 3, 2024
We end up in an old abandoned cathedral in Sharn. Temple of Desna. On the “low” level (not the lowest).

We notice there’s one bible on a pew that doesn’t look dusty (everything else is covered). It’s a book of the sovereign host. A leaflet falls out of it.

Tam looks through the book…
It jumps to a page that isn’t particularly interesting. Psalm to Aureon (sovereign of law and lore). Talks about Daanvi and Formians. All the lines and paragraphs are neatly composed and aligned.

Ozzy looks through the pamphlet…
Message from Gendrick: “If you were successful in recovering the seal, please come meet me in the library- we have much to discuss.” (the library is where we met him before, one level up)

We cannot find Gendrick in the Library. His table is covered in notes and books. There’s one about the Demon Wastes. Tam finds a collection of notes and sketches
Lake of fire: caldera of a massive active volcano
Deep in demon wastes
Gash-kala: a tribe of Orcs who protect bad things from escaping from the demon wastes. Extremely aggressive in their tactics.
Sketching of a labyrinth and a zoomed in part  of a pedestal with a beetle (probably the next seal)

Unsure if Gendrick went there or…? Ozzy asks a librarian what’s up with him and ends up hitting on an Aarakocra named Samala. They haven’t seen him for 2 days. She doesn’t like looking at the books he is interested in. She gives Ozzy a piece of paper with an address on it (we think it’s Gendrick’s address). It’s in Sharn in the lower levels.

If we want to leave anything in town, the bank has safe deposit boxes.

Aerin is curious what we should buy before we leave
Lockpicking kit (Ozzy)

Tam & Aerin are spending some time looking through Demon Wastes info in the library
Land:
Northwest corner of Khorvaire
Lake of fire in southwest
Not really any roads- people don’t go there
Nothing can grow there- barren rock & arid soil
Active volcanoes
Carved out labyrinth in the center from lava flows
Flora and Fauna:
Not many creatures, very barren, fire lizards, pygmy fire dragons, arcadian avengers, bloodfire oozes, demons, succubi
Most common humanoids- orcs, half-orcs, trolls, the “lords of dust” (rakshasa banished to the demon wastes), night hags, Gash-kala (orc and troll group), Tiefling
Rakshasa
Nearly immune to magic
Innate spellcasting
Can kill us in 2 rounds
(probably wanna run if we see one)
Succubus
Don’t let them kiss you
Immunity to charm effects
Flora: Lots of fire plants like Mandrakes
Most of the books Gendrick was looking at were about the lake of fire. We take a chewed pencil he left behind to try to find him.
 How do we get there??
People don’t go there…
But, Tam finds a record from an early explorer (he didn’t make it back, but his diary did)
He traveled along the Byeshk mountains through Droaam, stayed in Yrlag, crossed the Grithic River, then traveled along the coast and across the shadowflow river, across the pass between the stone cage and shadowcrags. Rested in Kashakanta, met with Gash-kala, who supplied him with a guide. He made it to the labyrinth and then the tale ends abruptly. Took him 7 weeks to get to Kashakanta.
Possible to go through the Eldeen Reaches, but there are fewer passes to get into Demon Wastes
Steal a skyship?

Ozzy & Finella go shopping in the lower levels
To Do:
Visit Ozzy’s friend
Thieves tools
Fire-resistant potions or scrolls
Poison arrows
They find a lady who has magical cloaks and rings
They find an annoying man who can make hand sparks. He doesn’t have potions, but has scrolls and arrows.
Finella gets pickpocketed by a little kid and Ozzy beats up a child and then gets pickpocketed by it
Kaimus is at the bar and buys Ozzy and Finella a drink (it burns but Finella can take it)
He has 3 big toes…
He has a lead on a job- come back in 2 days

We go to Gendrick’s house…
It’s in a row house section of the city. People are out on porches. Brown, 1-story shack with connected houses on each side. Alley in back, windows in front. No lights inside.
No one else in the Alley
Battered old metal door that doesn’t fit well
Small window on left of door- dark inside, there’s a small relatively neat kitchen and pantry. Past the kitchen there’s a room to the right and the front room.

Tam casts Reduce on the door… it rattles around a bit and there’s some lightning (trapped door!).
A woman is walking down the side street, but puts her head down and keeps walking.

We go in and light some candles- it’s a nice-ish house. There are some books on the kitchen table, there are books on the coffee table and couch and lots of bookshelves.
Kitchen: cookbooks
Front room: Daanvi, Demon wastes, note addressed to Tam- “dearest Tam, when you arrive, please recite this incantation”

Tam casts detect magic- normal stuff from a modern house.

The incantation isn’t a spell Tam knows, but with a good arcana check, he knows it won’t do any harm. He thinks it feels similar to “locate object.”

Tam casts the incantation and hears a thud in the closed room. Gendrick opens the door! “How did everything go in Daanvi!?” He looks worse for wear- his hair is going every which way, his glasses are taped together, he has writing up his arms. Looks like he’s been studying day and night. He wants to hear our story. He asks lots of questions and we tell him all about it.

We show him the seal and he gives us a dragon shard and 250gp. He offers to help us get 3 potions of fire resistance.

There are 4 more seals. I haven’t figured out how to get into the plane of madness yet. I have set up a meeting with a Dalcore who can get us into the plane of dreams. In the meantime, the demon wastes are ripe for the picking. He tells us all the things we already know from our study at the library.

Ozzy asked him where he was that we summoned him from, and he has a private library.

More interesting tidbits: the seal in this case is a scarab of protection. 

We have a sleepover at Gendrick’s house! Ozzy stocks up his kitchen so he doesn’t starve.

Nov 24, 2024
What we know:
We know which costumes were worn- there was a blue pirate to his left, red queen of hearts, red lion, red pirate, blue lion. He was stabbed in his left side.
The head council:
Asbiel (LC)
Jequin (always arguing w/ Gruniole)- maybe wanted one of the pirate costumes (blue one)
Seloriah- celestial - bought red queen costume from MainGUY (costume maker)
Yomyun - red lion - good vibes, Tam likes him
Gruniole - bought both pirate costumes,(red and blue) but may not have worn either. (kept the red one after a fight with Jequin) (usually sits next to Rinton)
Rinton - has a statue of a t-rex outside his house (usually sits next to Gruniole)
Other people:
Former lord chancellor (Drowd) - 
Burkain (Pharmacy) - dumb
Sphultan - Makes sandwiches and costumes (?)
Mangai - Good costume maker, gave us info on who wore/bought what
Pavel - Museum guy
Pimeoth - Planetarium guy
Freederick - The lord chancellors helper

Off to Jequin’s house! Aerin makes a hole in the wall. We see Jequin tied up in a room. He doesn’t know who tied him up. He was getting ready for the party and he got attacked and then got stuck in lockdown. 

“I wanted to be a lion, but the lion costumes were out. I had an argument with Gruniole, and he had two costumes and he was willing to sell me one. (blue pirate)”

Gruniole & I have had several arguments, but nobody would argue that we don’t often get along. I get along well with the rest of the council.”

There’s another formian who runs through the room in armor. We chase him down and stop him.

“I took it into my own hands to right the wrongs that had been done.” - Drowd

Finella finds Jequin’s blue pirate costume in the room that was locked that had Drowd hidden in it. There was a handkerchief with blood in the pocket…

We arrest Jequin!

Freedrick takes the Lord Chancelorship and gives us a scroll of “Zone of Truth” along with a still knife that is the Seal of Truth. Finella has it.

Tam askes how the future will go? “The bird lock opens, all remain to meet the final clearance.”

When we are ready to go, we can go to the museum and Pavel will help us leave. He opens a book and there’s a blue cone of light that emanates. Tam jumps in and the rest follow.

We find ourselves in an old temple to Desna (butterfly goddess of travel). We’re back in the city of Sharn.

Nov 21, 2024
We go to Sphultan’s place. There is a large thing in front of the shop. We annihilate it.

Tam pocketed a blue golfball pearl thing - to be identified later
It’s a Storm Sphere- 1 time casting of that 4th lvl spell (range is 30 ft)

In the shop it smells bad. It’s been 3 weeks since the dinner (today is the 5th of Rahhn).

We see a sealed cabinet with fresh food!

The old lord chancellor (Drowd?) is back in town (!!) He got a costume from Sphultan. He was going to dress up as an arakokra, so he made one for him.

Updated info (in order to the left around the table):
Asbiel (LC)
Jequin (always arguing w/ Gruniole)- maybe wanted one of the pirate costumes (blue one)
Seloriah- celestial - bought red queen costume from MainGUY (costume maker)
Yomyun - red lion - good vibes, Tam likes him
Gruniole - bought both pirate costumes,(red and blue) but may not have worn either. (kept the red one after a fight with Jequin) (usually sits next to Rinton)
Rinton - has a statue of a t-rex outside his house (usually sits next to Gruniole)
We know which costumes were worn- there was a blue pirate to his left, red queen of hearts, red lion, red pirate, blue lion. He was stabbed in his left side.

Also: Drowd is the old lord chancellor and he dressed up as an Arakokra for the party. He’s been gone for 47 years. Got a 6 murder score.

We leave to go see Burkain. He runs the pharmacy.

The pillars are alive…? We “kill” them and then go into the pharmacy to see Burkain.

He says Pimeoth had the highest murder score. Because he works in a museum.

He was at the masquerade party and he dressed up like a monkey.

Tam detects that he’s a doofus.

Sphultan catered the party.

Drowd was going to go on a journey around the planes 47 years ago.

Stillknifes are not cool- they are wretched and that custom has been abolished.

He gives us a get well soon card for the lord chancellor.

We plan to go see Jequin next. Then Rinton and then the other Lord Chancellor (Drowd).
Nov 1, 2024

We decided to take a long rest in Mangai’s house.

We start to dream…

Aerin is on a dirt road in the fog by a tree
Tam is in a graveyard
Ozzy sees a figure and a building and starts yelling
Finella hears Ozzy yelling
Aerin and Tam can hear them and start moving towards them.
We gather and see a tavern.

We go in and they freak out and try to stab us with butter knives and yell “they’re here!”

Ozzy turns back into a tiefling and explains that we aren’t humans- apparently the humans come around at the end of October and wipe a bunch of them out. Ozzy convinces them that we mean no harm and makes friends.

He talks w/ a werewolf named Groll (yes, related to Dave).

Between 4&6 people, usually have a strong person, a stabby guy, a spell-caster, and someone who shoots from far away.

Oct 27, 2024

Plan: We’ll go see Mangai next. (costume maker)

There are statues. We have to fight them because the Lord Chancellor is the only one who can disable them without fighting.

We scope out the outside of the house to see if there’s a way in without having to deal with the statues. We find an iron door and an alarm goes off

Aerin and Finella run around the building while Tam and Ozzy split the scary statues. 

LOOT: We loot 2 x motes that hold a cone of cold spell! DC 12 con save for 12 dmg (5d6 dmg)

We go back up on the roof to get the immovable rod and loot statue #1.

Mangai is a bit stressed.

Q: Who ordered each costume? Which ones did you make?
Yomyun: did not want a pirate costume. Did not dress as a pirate.
Seleriah: bought red queen costume. Only had one of these.
Gruniole: bought a red and a blue pirate costume, but may not have worn them.
	Rinton and Jequin did not come to Mangai
Q: When did you see a blue lion costume?
	Never
Q: Who makes costume?
	Sfultan
	Seloriah (but she failed so she bought the red queen)
Q: Who has the highest murder score?
	He doesn’t like Yomyun, so him
Next is his sister
Q: Who murdered the lord chancellor?
	I don’t know
Q: Who has access to the still knife?
	It was under lock and key in the LC’s office. The high council all had access.

You should talk to Sphultan or Burkain next.

Q: Where can we get a snack?
	Sphultan has a sandwich shop


Oct 22, 2024

We are talking with Freedrick (steward)

Questions for us to ask:
Q: When was the party? (what date did the lockdown start?)
	9 days ago
Q: Who were the LC’s enemies?
	He’s had disagreements with everyone
Q: Did he see the murder? Where was he?
	He didn’t- he was tending to the other guests
Q: Where should we go next to continue un-locking-down the town?
	He would go to the other 6 members of the town
Q: Was the LC a good boss?
	The best of the two that he knew - guided through cultish behavior - only formian on the council (this is the only time that there have only been one formian)
Q: Was it you?
	In some ways it was…

Asbiel (LC)
Jequin
Seloriah- celestial - bought red queen costume from MainGUY (costume maker)
Yomyun - red lion - good vibes, Tam likes him
Gruniole - bought both pirate costumes,(red and blue) but may not have worn either. 
Rinton

There is some blaming and admitting (??) that he was responsible for the death. He didn’t have access to the still knife, though. It was a ceremonial (very deadly) weapon. Apparently people in Daanvi don’t understand lying. Ozzy is now a king… and Freedrick makes tea.

The council is made up of many races

Seloriah - immigrated 112 years ago

Q: anything weird about the council members:  Gruniel & Jequin - are in an argument about some weird pet grave depth argument - 73 years now and accelerated. (He seemed visibly nervous describing this argument… “if you ask me… we do need to turn off the other locks for the residents but if there is a murderer about, I am hesitant to let them out. Option 1. Open up the councilors… Option 2. Open up the other people”

Q: how to replace a new LC: dies or relinquishes the title 

CLUE: We know which costumes were worn- there was a blue pirate to his left, red queen of hearts, red lion, red pirate, blue lion. He was stabbed in his left side.

Other people to talk to: Mangai, Burkain, Svphultan, Meagean- shop keepers in town that might know something.

CLUE: Rinton & Gruniole always sit next to each other

We go to see Yomyun…

2 rows of 6 levers

Said 103 -> pulled

1a -> 86 to 103 (17)
1b -> 86 to 63 (23)
1c (6)
1d (16)
1e (13)
1f -> 63 to 54 (9)

We find a combo to equal 0 and the door stops being electric! Finella goes in the door.

There’s a squid-like creature- he says “We were under lockdown, what happened? I heard about the Lord Chancellor. My name is Yomyun.”

Q: did you murder the Lord Chancellor?
A: no!
Q: do you lie?
A: no!
Q: what costume were you wearing?
A: red lion without an eye patch
Q: did you know what everyone was wearing?
A: no- that was part of the fun
Q: if you had to guess, who did it?
A: I do not tarry in supposition
Q: Tell me about Seloriah. What’s the chance she’s a murderer? 
A: She’s a wise woman. A celestial. She arrived 112 years ago, the most recent member of the council. She’s headstrong and disagrees but normally has a nectar with someone afterward. I give her a murder score of 4
Q: How about Jakun? What’s his murder score?
A: A 9
Q: what is Rinton’s murder score?
	A: 18

CLUE: Mangai made a lot of the costumes in town, so worth talking to him
CLUE: Yomyun’s costume doesn’t have any blood on it

We take his clothes… it’s a little odd. Ozzy wants to take them to the lab.

We’ll go see Mangai next.


Sep 1, 2024

We teleport to Titan’s Teeth in Xendrick! Small town- 1-2 buildings w/ a crushed gravel road. A few people- most people are elves, but a few full giants. Fishing village (located along fjord connected to ocean to the north).

Gendrick said goodbye as we entered the portal. We don’t see any jungles around. We see a general store and head there.

General Store: Due to the giant population, the doors and buildings are huge. There’s a river giant at the counter who we ask for pamphlets. He’s thin and wiry, tall but not wide. Fishing tours, the old church, more fishing tours, a cave, not much about another plane. The church is named “The Church of Truth” and the giant said they cut down trees to build it. We decide to go there… (also Finella remembers that the manifest zone is in the church of truth). We navigate to the church using the mini map on the pamphlet.

Church: which God is it? “It’s not that kind of church” On the tour, the guide explains that this is part of a pilgrimage- people don’t pray here, they stop on their way to Daanvi, and the church holds the manifest zone. The zone is currently closed. To go through, they have people sign in to keep the traffic limited. There are openings today! 

Daanvi- plane of order. Discussing and arguing what is right and what is wrong. Lots of people wandering around all day. Trials in the courthouse- local and for other planes. They eat soup. Truth is all that you need. There’s a gift shop. (our tour guide’s name was Arrowind) Don’t break the law.

We go to Daanvi!

It’s very bright, it looks similar to the crushed gravel of Titan’s Teeth. Eerily quiet. We see a humanoidish figure 150m down the road who is talking to themselves. We hear what they’re saying… “Welcome to Daanvi…” 6 ft tall ant (Formian)in a tall cloak. It’s a hologram of a formain. The back of the pedestal has been tampered with. 

Tam investigates the hologram- there are 3 configurations. It’s in configuration 1 (it’s a “warm season” welcome to Daanvi)
Tam changes it to configuration 2 (it’s the “cool season” version)
Tam tries configuration 3 (“we’re sorry for the inconv… whomever sees this message- please help! The lord chancellor has been killed he was stabbed in the left side with a still knife at a costume party during dinner. I have placed the town under lockdown protocol as we don’t know who stabbed him and I needed a way to keep everyone safe. If you want to help, please “unlock” the museum and planetarium and perhaps you will be able to bring the killer to justice.”)

Planetarium: Door is unlocked. Seats in circles facing outward, pedestal in the center w/ knobs & dials. It’s totally silent. Very dark w/ small red lights for exits. Ozzy turns on the house lights w/ a switch on the pedestal. Cardinal directions are on the dome. There’s a projector that is hovering above us
There’s an “activate” button, a dial that goes from 1-24 and a knob that has 12 positions 
z, o, t, e, d, n, l, b, r, s, a, v
(a, b, d, e, l, n, o, r, s, t, v, z)- these letters correspond to the first letters of the months, each month has 24 days

T1: Finella pushes the button- the projector lights up, but w/ the house lights we can’t see what it’s projecting. W/ house lights off, we see the projection of the night sky. Finella and Aerin recognize the constellation of the Otter. The position indicates the early part of Therendor (late winter/early spring- equivalent to March).

Today is late summer… 4th of Rahhn

R4: We see a Badger constellation. Harbinger of fall. Symbol of curiosity and change.
R3: Still badger
B16: We eventually leave the badger and switch to the Raven
R5: Still Badger

We leave and go to the museum. Left wall: portraits of Formians they look like there are some older and some more modern ones. Semi-circle of 4 pedestals. A bunch of stuff has been knocked over and thrown about. Figurines of animals all over the floor, books knocked off the bookshelf. 

Animal figurines: Fox, Raven, Quipper, Scorpion, Grell, Otter, Badger, Moose, Lynx, Turtle, Owl, Crocodile
Pedestals: Date on each one- 7 Olorun, 11 Sypheros, 9 Barachas, 21 Dravago

9B: Raven- we put the raven figurine on the 9B pedestal (we imagine “ta da” music)

Books- Tam sees a vision of a hooded figure knocking books off the shelf- pure chaos. The books are generally the history of Daanvi, and lots of law tomes.

There is a back office that wasn’t obvious (and maybe was obscured by magic?) it is locked. Tam searches the desk- no keys but lots of things that makes it seem like one person works here (Pavel Renfroth). Ozzy writes a letter to his parents.

7O: Fox
11S: Scorpion
21D: Large Fish (Quipper)
9B: Raven is confirmed

We put animal figurines on pedestals. We hear the door fly open and bang against the wall! “Who locked me in there!!?”

Formian comes out in a huff. “I am Pavel! I am the proprietor of the museum. Who locked me in here?”

Ozzy explains what we know.

We ask what a still knife is. He goes through books looking for one that explains the history- used to cut one who was thought to be guilty of a crime, and it would lock them in position and then use the knife to kill them if they were found to be guilty.

5 members of the high council will vote for a new lord chancellor when needed.

We find another ant creature at the Planetarium- Pavel explains they were in lockdown. His name is Pimeoth. Tam asks if the Lord Chancellor has any enemies.

Lockdown: rooms are magically locked in a suspension state, only the lord chancellor is left out of that state and has the ability to initiate and release the lockdown. To initiate “unlockdown” (lockup?) the Museum and Planetarium are the first to be unlocked, and then the rest of the buildings can be unlocked by disabling the “security measures.”

If the LC was killed during dinner, it must have been one of the other high council members… no one else joins them for dinner.
Asbiel (LC)
Jequin
Seloriah
Yomyun
Gruniole
Rinton

All of the council members have dissented in prior cases except Jequin, Gruniole wanted to be LC.

We know where all their houses are if we want to release them.

We show Pavel and Pimeoth the recording we saw- they say that is Freedrick? He’s the caretaker of the LC. The other recordings are the Lord Chancellor.

The dinner was at the Governor's Mansion. (we should go there)

Businesses in town: Inn, General Goods, Blacksmith, Gift Shop, Courthouse/Governor’s Mansion

We notice that time has just started to move again… still late afternoon but time is weird.

Governor’s Mansion: 2 Lady Justice statues stop us when we get close “halt! We are on lockdown” we fight them. We make it inside, and we see Freedrick. 

Q: When was the party? (what date did the lockdown start?)
Q: Who were the LC’s enemies?
Q: Did he see the murder? Where was he?
Q: Where should we go next to continue un-locking-down the town?
Q: Was the LC a good boss?


Aug 25, 2024

Negotiations with the wolves fail.

“This is our goat, we’ll defend it. Leave it or die”

Final riddle- something about a fence. We don’t see a fence nearby. Finella climbs a tree to look around. Off to the southeast she sees a house (they probably have a fence).

We go to a little house w/ smoke coming out of the fireplace. There is a fence around the garden. Adidas says this is the shrine of Araway.

Large stinky dead tree in the yard tries to hit Aerin. There are a bunch of bushes and trees that try to kill us. Eventually a lady comes out of her hut and calms things down and we plant trees. Weird stuff goes down and then we camp for the night.

We each get a small wooden box for a thank you from the elder of the town. We look in the box- there’s nothing in there but we LEVEL UP TO LEVEL… 7!

Adidas asks us if we know a man who is looking for us. He’s the guy who gave us the seal quest (Gendrick).

Aerin gets a rad tattoo sleeve on their left arm.

We teleport to Titan’s Teeth in Xendrick!


Aug 17, 2024

We are teleported off the train and are in that place that is called… Starilaskur.
There is color everywhere- streamers & sky writing & stilts, people holding cauldron (undying court symbol for “elder soup” this is very gross. Ew. dead soup power is used to pass along the powers), everyone seems happy. Ozzy determines it doesn’t seem carnival-esque. This is a very religious town- this is a holy day. Elements of lots of different religions. People are dressed up w/ symbols of their religions. Celebration of all religions because it’s the time of the year where the “ring of cibberous” (sp?) is closest to the earth, and there’s a huge meteor shower.

Ozzy gives the cool necklace to Aerin. (yay!)

There are a bunch of signup sheets- there are ceremonies for each religion, and each ceremony tries to get tourists to come and participate in THEIR ceremony. The two religions that we could fit in are:
Church of sovereign host (lots of gods)
Their ritual is where they take a bunch of seeds and take them to the graveyard where the shrine to Arawai is. Planting them there will ensure a plentiful harvest
Church of silver flame (there’s a flame that is the source of strength in the world, evil is bad- get rid of evil things)
Coming of age ritual- youngest members have to banish fae creatures that are summoned

Volunteers:
Blood of Vol: Pale old elf doesn’t want to be there: Arandis
Church of Silver Flame: Dwarf in shiny armor, good beard but a little singed: Tvorn
Human twins boy and girl
Sovereign host (boy is Adidas)
Dark six (girl is Nike)

Ozzy is an old man (J’sp-ř)(pronounced Jasper so Dustin remembers) trying to get into the soup. He learns that elves are the ones that are in the undying court… and he weirdly turns into an elf.

We have an awkward conversation with the boy about the host ritual. “This year will be way harder than any other year” Usually a couple swarms of bats- they get banished and then we get cake.

We take a short rest.

We go check out the vendors. There are some games of skill. Prizes are stuffed animals- once per day you can have them be a companion.
J’sp-ř (Ozzy) tries to do the fishing game w/ invisible mage hand. He catches a fish, the magehand didn’t help. It’s a little fish.
You can use the little fish in the bigger pond as bait. Ozzy does it.
He catches a fish (mage hand doesn’t help)! It’s a bigger fish.
You can use the bigger fish in the even bigger pond as bait. Ozzy does it. He doesn’t catch anything. One more chance w/ a small donation. He catches one (it looks a little odd- the mage hand helps) “Daldorn really blesses you today!”
He can choose stuffed squirrel, owl, or frog. It’s name is it’s “power word”- it’s name is Phinneus. When activated, he lasts for an hour.
Aerin plays the shell game w/ mind reading & wins the frog
Aerin’s frog is named Gorf
Finella tries the blade game
She fails :(
Tam drained a bunch of 3s
Won Squirt the squirrel

We go to the ritual. 4 kids, 4 carts w/ goats. Elder is reading off what you need to do. Each cart has different stuff. Adidas’ cart has things to plant- 6 “shriekers”, 12 “violet funguses”, 6 “twig blights”. Each cart goes to different things. We get gardening gloves and a trowel. 
Plant as many as you can, sometimes they get away. Plant some.
“Follow the signpost to the tallest tree in the forest, read the instructions and follow them”
Ozzy/J’sp-ř gives Adidas a dagger

Phinneus flies to find the tallest tree and turns into a stuffed animal and plummets to the Earth. Squirt and Finella race to the top of the tree to see where the tallest tree is. We get adv on survival checks to follow the path!

We follow the path. The goat is old. Too old for Tam to ride. Like J’sp-ř in some ways, but he’s never too old to ride. There was a can gift to the goat and it liked it.

What has a mouth but never eats, but a bed, but never sleeps. J’sp-ř/Ozzy gets it! (River) “Cross me and follow the next sign post”

Finella climbs the tallest tree. She doesn’t see a river, but she can hear one. We follow the path in that direction.

We find the river- a weasel comes running out of the woods and jumps into the cart, and the shriekers go crazy. 3 twig blights, 2 violet funguses fall out and start moving away from the cart. Aerin casts speak with animals and talks to the weasel. He wants food. She trades him a good berry to leave us alone. 
Ozzy tries to get a twig blight and misses it
Tam grabs a twig blight and it attacks him but he gets it
Finella tries to get a violet fungus and misses it
Adidas tries to get a violet fungus and misses it
The goat tries to grab a twig blight and misses it

Down to: 4 twig blights and 10 violet fungi

Sign post at river: “Which flowers are most likely to prompt a kiss?” Tulip
The back of the sign says “go and find us in a field”

Finella uses her elven sense to shoot an arrow into the air to find Tulips?? Aerin trades tulip location info for another good berry. Finella is very stealthy.

We find a field of tulips. They are surprised. Tam picks some flowers. Tam gives flowers to J’sp-ř and Finella. We notice a signpost and a ring of 5 dire wolves that are surrounding us…

“I run around the field, not going inside or out or even moving” Finella gets it! Fence



Jul 15, 2024

We head back to the caboose to look through stuff there (crates w/ letter labels)

We go to ask Ogrand about the Ace- he looks it over. He tells us that the train wasn’t always as long as it is now. The Engine, first storage car, and the caboose were original.

The card slot in the barrel in the Engine car doesn’t take the ace, but it does take the 9 of diamonds. It turns into an I (the 9th letter).

We go to the caboose to check out the A barrel. We feed the ace in the A barrel and the top of the barrel slides back… small lump of coal at the bottom

Finella puts the 2 into the B. It doesn’t take the 2… this confuses us.

We get a necklace for feeding the elemental the piece of goal. And an obsidian bowling ball. Links of fire.His name is… Ash (McBurnsalot). Necklace adds 1xd6 fire damage to a melee weapon. Also adds resistance to fire.


Jun 15, 2024
We ask a guy about pictures- he said there might be a storage car w/ paintings on the other side of the dining car.

Painting/card tracker:
Engine
King of diamonds from Ogrand the Engineer
1st storage room
King painting (we annihilated him)
Queen painting (we fought her and passed her test)
Sleeper car
2 cherubs painting
3 bears painting
4 little lizards painting
5 bunnies painting
6 analsauruses painting
7 armored guards
8 camels 
9 birds
10 dogs painting
Dining car - the bar
Jack of diamonds (for drinking bad drink)
Queen of diamonds (for card game)
(fizzy drink)
Our sleeper car.
No paintings, but maybe there are. We’ll see later.
2nd storage room
Jester painting - This guy sucked. We made him disappear though
Butler painting - Got this fool with the Jack of Diamonds
2 of diamonds
3 of diamonds
5 of diamonds 
8 of diamonds in one of the crates
Sleeper loungey car
A red joker
4 of diamonds
6 of diamonds
7 of diamonds
10 of diamonds - Camel - killed immediately
Train workers quarters/caboose
9 of diamonds


We meet Fred who works in the 2nd storage car. He also saw more cards, and doesn’t know where they are. He says when he sees them they disappear. We find more cards w/ perception.

We put the Jack in the Butler painting, and are teleported to another room! The butler is there holding a sword. The queen is sitting on her throne just observing. “It seems you have bested the queen, care to try your hand against me?!”

Ozzy remembers that he was supposed to put on a crown. He does it and hears a horrible creepy voice who asks him what year it is.

Guy in the crown is claiming he is the Mordenkainen … He’s a self proclaimed very important wizard. He wants to know if he can call on us. Ozzy says that we are adventurers … Mordenkainen says that the crown is drawn to those who deserve it. He says: “I believe the fate of the multiverse is at risk”
Contact me again in One month (today is the 14th of Lumbar)

Go into the next sleeper kind of loungey car. Couple eating dinner at the table. We find a card under their table

Caboose: Train workers quarters- crates & barrels
Crates labeled 1 & 2
Barrels are labeled A, B, C & D
Chest labeled “I”
Tam tries to open it. Ozzy asks the workers in the car if they have the key. They do, but didn’t know. 
There’s a playing card in the chest. 9 of diamonds

Tam casts locate object
Nearest one is coming from the last car. We go back there to look around and find two more cards in the fireplace!

We go to the engine car. Ogrand the dwarf is there w/ his fire elemental buddy. Ogrands father told him that one day there would be people who would be there to remove the seal. He gives us the King, and we look for the Ace. We don’t find it.

Ozzy puts the king card in the slot and we are transported…

We fight lots of things and eventually get the Ace of Diamonds. What do we do with it???

We find the daughter (the 8) and she gives us the Ace.


Jun 3, 2024

Ozzy tells a great story to the town gossip about how Savia saved Errol from a Dream Eater before selling him the ashes.

We stay one more night in the fancy hotel before going to the train. Then we take the airship to Korranberg.

Gorgeous views during the flight. Korranberg is a rundown fishing town w/ lots of refugees and people begging. Definitely a big change from the rich part of Sharn.

Have to take an early airship to make the train.

Teleportation circle on platform
Train slows as it turns so there’s a slingshot system (someone flinging people w/ haste casted on them) to throw them on the train as it goes by

Finella would like to do option 2. Everyone else is horrified and plans on using the teleportation circle.

A very genuine dwarf man approaches Tam with a weird echoey voice. He invites Tam to come see the engine room. His name is Ogrand. He is one of the train drivers. A man asks for our tickets, and we give the tickets to him.

Teleportation is seamless and we end up in the first storage car of the train. There are paintings on the wall. There’s one of King Jarrett- when he died, that kicked off the war. There’s one of the Queen too. No one remembers her name. It’s sad.

Our tickets will take us to the end of the line.

We get into gambling with some dudes… long story short we won a magical queen of diamonds.

We start going back to the cargo area, when we notice there are paintings above each bed. There are 9 paintings: 1 over each bed. 2 cherubs, 5 bunnies, 3 berries, 6 dinosaurs, etc

Ozzy tries to mage-hand the card into the queen of diamonds painting and it disappears before inserting the card. When Ozzy inserts the card, the world goes black…

We get teleported to a room… start a fight with the queen.. She gives up cuz we’re awesome and she knew we were totally going to kill her.

We kept looking for more cards, might have found another one but I can’t really remember. Jack of Diamonds (for Ozzy drinking a weird/bad drink and not puking). Ozzy was only the second person ever to drink the drink.



May 18, 2024

The two guards are still there. They greet Errol. Ozzy is Prawn and Aerin is Ozzy. They don’t seem to recognize us. They try to stop us (“Savia isn’t taking visitors right now”) and we walk past them up the stairs to Savia’s office.

She’s surprised to see Errol and exclaims that she’s surprised to see him so early.

Aerin detects her thoughts
Emotional state: frustrated
“Surface” thoughts: “he’s supposed to be dead!”

Guards: “Miss Savia, would you like us to escort them out?”

Prawn explains the event. Errol said it was nothing. He thought they wanted to hug him. Errol gives us an autograph- made out to the “people that saved me”

Savia admits that she hired idiots the first time around. She said she tried to hire us, but has decided not to… she gives us 3k gp and now we’re… friends?

We ask Savia about the train. She uses it to transfer goods and documents. She has the ability to hire guards for her goods, so she can get us on with passes as armed guards.

Aerin detects that Savia feels like we’re more competent than other groups.

Train schedule: will be in Korranberg in 3 days
Option 1: airship to Korranberg
Option 2: other train to Sturngate

Savia gives us a House Cannith name to contact: Ven Felda (she is a forgemaster for House Cannith) we can use Savia’s name to get an audience.

We take a short rest and then go shopping.





May 9, 2024
NEXT TIME: don’t forget to ask Jordan about Spa Boon!!

Tam sees a few visions from the crystal ball: “something bad is going to happen”
Ozzie with a stack of bills
Young girl comes running looking behind her and barrels into ozzie… the impact really tossles him even though she’s small
Casino is closed for business

We don’t go to the casino on Tam’s advice. Tam & Ozzy gamble a bit and we sleep.

3 extra action surges for the day for finella
Extra level 2 spell slot for ozzie k
Aerin- 1 additional lvl 3 spell slot
+1 to all hit rolls/saving throws to Tam

The “spa” tried to give Finella a message as we were leaving, but Finella made them send it up to the room, so we have to wait while Finella and Ozzy go back up to the room to get it. The beds are made and they eat the mints. They check for traps in the envelope (no traps). 6 glossy b&w photos & a handwritten note- Finella recognizes one photo (Inspector Prawn), and shows it to Ozzy, and all the photos are him. “I believe we have more to discuss - Savia” (this is weird because Ozzy hasn’t been all of these people here) This is a problem…

2 ways to make glossy photos- you can make it live or use a pipe of remembrance (so someone saw him in other places).

We go to the potion factory. Tam casts clairvoyance which allowed him to see inside the building for 10 minutes. He sees 4 guards and 4 scientists as well as the influential fanboy. We also found that there was a ladder  

Tam casts Clairvoyance (in the potion building):
Vats w/ spinning stir arms & shelves with reagents 
30 ft ceilings, 20 ft catwalk that runs around the outside of the building
Ladder from the catwalk to rooftop access
Sign on the vat: “Highly caustic” picture of an arm going into it and a skeleton
Sign on other vat: “Highly volatile” gas cloud with people wandering
Sign on room: “Special experiments”
Med.height gentleman walking around in a fancy outfit like he owns the place
4 armed guards, 2 basic chemists

Water tower & loading dock (door is up)

Sign on front door: “private tour today, all public tours closed.”

Finella sees someone on the water tower with a long bow trying to hide (was supposed to be the cat that we saw die). We also see the private tour group go into the building. One of the people in the group look like they don’t fit the group (nervous? Not curious about the tour?)

Vanessa (receptionist) barely let us in, but we make it by. She seems very strong and fast… but very uninterested in potions.

People on the tour: Errol has his arm around an attractive young female, 2 body guard dudes, 2 influencer-types

Reagents are in a precarious situation on the shelves

Tam: “is that Errol Patellus!?!”
Errol: “would you like an autograph!?!?!”
Tam <fanboys hard> “make it out to Ozzy”
Ozzy: “my name is Bozzy!”

One of the scientists are leading the tour- “these are our base potions- we mix them in different ratios to make all the potions you love. If we have time, we can visit the Special Experience room where we’re developing new things that might be on the shelves in 3-6 months!” We learn there are proprietary formulas and dangerous chemicals, hence the guards.

One of the tour group is noticeably suspicious. Tam starts a convo with that person. He says his name is “Jawn” but Tam is suspicious.

Tam: “How do you know Errol? He’s great, huh?”
Jawn: “Uh yeah”
Tam: “Did you hear that some people don’t like him?”
Jawn: “I just remembered I need to do something over there”
Tam: “ok cool, I’ll come with you!”
They go behind a vat
Jawn: “uh… can you reach that pin up there? The scientist asked me to”

Tam asked the scientist what the pin does… the scientist says it’s an “emergency evacuation pin”

Tam saves Errol’s life (Jawn tried to push him into a vat). Jawn kicked the wall 3 times, then we hear 3 big thuds on the roof. A humanoid drops down from the rooftop and tries to push past Ozzy. Jawn tries to push Errol again.

Potion of shape change, potion of faery fire, potion of invisibility, potion that I’ve never seen before but that seems “extremely harmful”

Blue barrels -> Acid Splash flasks

Tam finds two more potions - a potion of shapechange and a potion of levitation

We arrange for him to give us 1000gp for the rescue. We head off to escort errol back home to his loving wife. 


Mar 27, 2024
There is spring break happening. A blond halfling asks us if we want to play volleyball.
We play a tournament and we win! We win a trophy that refills with a random liquid every day.
Tam sings the Breland national anthem. It’s not the most wordy/complicated song, but very patriotic.

We take the stretch cart to Sharn. There’s a line to get in the gate. Finella did elf tricks and got us cheap meat on a stick while we wait.

There are 5 of us, 4 of us and Earl 2 the donkey. Earl’s catholic (?)

Kaymus (?) lost his toes. So he doesn’t work at the Toad any more. He’s a lookout in a swivel chair in Ft. Townsend (?). His cousin Toomer (tumor?) took over for him. Tell them Cliftf sent you. (Cliftf is a “Glamour Bay Boy”). So many weapons on us. We register them.

He gives us the name of a weaponsmith:

2 taverns w/ inns ($1g/night):
Airbnb
Hotel
Upper level ($10g/night):
Spa: The Tranquil Towers

Ratrick Swayze is Tam’s familiar in the city.

Ozy notices some of his job buddies are on the bounty boards. 

Next job, a train that never stops, has a seal on one of the cars. Train never stops, traveling between Sturngate and Korrinberg (??)

We hear a loud crash above us- a creature plummets to the cobbles in front of us, immediately breaking its neck and dying. Skycoach hit and run. Red and blue sky coach. Newish. We try to help the body. Very nice pouch with razor-sharp throwing darts, hand crossbow +  10 poisoned crossbow bolts (carrion crawler mucus). She is a shifter- canine features.  Leather wallet- 2 parchments. 1 moving illusory image of a human in fine clothes labeled “Errol Patellus.” 1 map of the Courage Potion Laboratory with a plan w/ marked locations. Dog, Cat, Ox, Pig, Rooster, Rabbit instructions. No ID. Pouch of 15 gp!


We report the dead body and look up Errol Patellus in the white pages.
1 entry for Patellus, first name “Savia” and listed as Councillor Savia Patellus

We dress up like inspectors and go to visit Savia. We arrive at the tower, it’s very nice. There are two large bodyguards at the front door. We totally pull off the ol’ magic leak ruse.

Errol is the husband… she doesn’t know where he is. Says that he’s an influencer and that he might be touring the potion factory. After taking 35g off of the terrified bodyguard we head to the spa.


Mar 3, 2024

Harpies are evil flying creatures that like messing w/ people. Harpies canonically hate spiders. WeListening to their song may charm a humanoid.

Rust monsters have very good scent and can smell ferrous metal. Can rust metal- non-magical metal they touch will immediately corrode. If it takes enough damage it will break. If they touch you with the antennae, it will have the same effect.

We all put stuff in our ears because we’re worried about harpy songs.

Esmeralda points us in the general direction (~1 ½ hr to walk). We take the stretch cart.

We find a group of people in the swamp on the way to harpies. Could be a family. A man, woman, and teenage boy. Their cart is stuck and apparently their other son has been taken and turned into a wooden statue. They want us to rescue their son Baldric (balldress, or balldriess alternatively) and have offered a reward. A witch took him and turned him into a statue. We’ll recognize him from the sash he always wears.. Our group is very incredulous about the story and asks if they are lying, they say no and we don't have any reason to question them. They offer us a horde of polished gold nuggets, but they don’t seem to pass the sniff test. Names: Penelope and Baldrickian Bruce.

Tam sends Ethan Hawk to take a peek into the ruins we see ahead.

We fight harpies and blood hawks- it’s intense and a lot of fighting. It’s exhausting.
From the bodies of what the harpies had killed, we find: 37g29s14c, 4 pots healing, 1 pot greater healing, 1 pot invisibility
The harpy leader dropped a wooden child statue (70 lbs!?!)

We managed to drive past the family who claimed the wooden boy but just ignored them and continued on. We return to Esmarelda with the statue and she is being creepy. Ozzy explains how the tournament works, group round followed by round robin. We ask her about the human family out in the woods. She is concerned that we let the family have or see the statue. Esmarelda is evasive when we ask her about the people. She finally claims that “I saved a boy from certain death, these creatures that you see are not humans. Are you familiar with the Annis hags? They approach children and they coerce them to come with and do them favors. Eventually they devour the children. This child must survive for another 400 years, so I had to turn them to wood. Harpies stole them because they’re little weirdo kleptomaniacs. You are on a mission to save the world from the unspeakable whoreors. Take the amulet and go back and solve this particular conundrum.”

Asking the witch about the gold… “The Annis hags tear out their own teeth and turn them into things that looks like gold”

We go to see Blackwater Lake- it’s spring break. Ozzy is wearing an awesome swimsuit with shoulder straps. It gets weird… there are lots of naked monsters running around. Finella gets so many beads. Ozzy takes drugs and shoots fire bolts at an inflatable monster that 4 goblin bros were riding… they’re pissed and coming for us…

Next time: fight goblins then go to Sharn & determine what to do with our dragon shards and what to do when we level up!


Feb 25, 2024

Spells Tam doesn’t have from the spellbook we found:

Unseen Servant: 1st level, Conjuration. Creates an invisible, mindless servant that performs tasks.
Fly: 3rd level, Transmutation. Grants the ability to fly to a creature.
Stinking Cloud: 3rd level, Conjuration. Creates a cloud of gas that can nauseate and poison.
Wall of Force: 5th level, Evocation. Creates an invisible wall of force that is impenetrable.

Map in a Journal we found:

Dave drew this. 
First of the 7 Seals: There is an Amulet of Thorns that is in the possession of the Bog Witch near Blackwater Lake. We cannot decipher the rest of the items but we know where they are.

Flight attendant lady can teleport us back to where we want to go… options
Castle Breland (in Breland)
Grimstone Keep (near the Great Crag)
Fairhaven (north in Andair)
Frostmantle (in the Mohr holds in the east)

We teleport to Breland. It’s weird and disorienting. Ozzy throws up. The guards (who have black arm bands) see the prince and are shocked/relieved/confused.

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED

The king asks us what happened and we tell him that the Cult of Catachesma crashed the ship and we believe they were trying to enact a prophecy of the child of freya crashing upon the rocks. Tam turns in an invoice to Captain Ashpeak and we get a bunch of good loot. 

Got a card to the stigeon monastery in Sharna where we might some pearls of power

We buy a cloak of protection and 4 x 35g potions of healing.

We teleport to Grimstone Keep with the goal of going to the Blackwater Lake. We get to Grimstone Keep- the back wall has been blown out and the castle has been pillaged and almost destroyed. 1st floor is collapsed in, so looks like there was an outside attack. No bodies.
Tam thinks there was an event (massive creature? storm?), but no signs of a struggle- people just left. Crazy.
Probably a meteor. Shit went DOWN.

Ethan Hawk scouts ahead as we head toward the Great Crag. Lots of campers outside the Crag.

The guard (Taylor) tells us that a big storm centered on Grimstone Keep came in and destroyed the keep- the gargoyles are sheltering in the Crag. They rent wagons. The business is called “Wanta Wenta Wagon.” We mention Sheshka’s name and he goes inside. He brings us to Bruce (the gargoyle) and Sheshka. We’re welcome to stay with the gargoyles. Bruce will help us get a good deal at Wanta Wenta Wagon.

“The darkness rolled in and it sounded like someone was beating at the walls with giant maces. We huddled in the basement- everyone escaped, but our home is destroyed.”

Uneventful night of sandworms and pineapple stew. Sheshka stops in to say hi. She doesn’t even turn us to stone. So nice. Her basilisk buddy turns Ozzy to stone because he was so happy to see him.

The next morning we get a wagon from Wanta Wenta Wagon. He’s kinda a dick. Apparently it’s a 7 axel wagon that pulls itself. Some axles are bumpy (watch out for the 3rd one). 2700gp - we start walking away… the Gargoyle comes to ensure we’re getting a fair deal. It’s 260gp for 4 days.

6 gnolls come running out from gilly suits from around us.

One of the gnolls said that the wagon rental guy had told him we were pushovers. That pisses us off.

We get a longbow, 6 spears, 7 gnoll teeth, and 4 gnoll ears.

We find a note from the proprietor that we can use to pressure him (we could ruin his business) and get some gold.

We spend an uneventful night in the bog in a cool tent.

Ethan Hawk finds the witch’s hovel! Off we go…

Witch’s house- it’s like a Tardis. Arcane paraphernalia. Like a bra (?) Powerful hovel. Don’t become ensnared in the web of fate and fortune she weaves. “Come closer…”

Witch wears tattered robes of moss and hemp- her eyes are black pools. Hair is a mess with bones sticking out. Ozzy kisses her hand but she rebuffs him. “Here for the amulet of thorns, I believe?” Ozzy asks her name- “you can call me Esmerelda”

“I have foreseen you coming- I’d like to make a deal with you, of sorts. I’d like to give you the amulet, but I’d like something in return. I require vitality to keep myself alive- you could give me some of yours (randomly someone would use a level to take that life source in exchange). Alternately, I have been forcefully separated from an object by a band of harpies. You could also kill me (the amulet will eventually jump back here).

Ozzy asks if it’s strange that the amulets are being collected. “The seals have moved over the centuries. I myself only have had the seal for the past 150 years. Searching for seven seals indicates two dalkyr (Catakeesma & Balasheera) are attempting escape… which is worrying. I believe you’ll be able to protect it in a new way.”

The harpies took a wooden statue of a boy about 1.5 ft tall. “Bring it directly back here”

What does she know about Gendrick and the keepers. Gendrick is older than Esmeralda. “He is of a generation where the outcome matters more than the methods. Gendrick is not my friend, but I trust him.”

The harpies nest is in the old ruins to the southwest. “If anyone inquires about the statue either going or coming from the task, do not tell them I sent you or what you are doing.”

Finella searches the bog witch’s hovel and finds a green glowing rock that is pulsing. The bog witch puts it in the soup. Finella drinks some soup. +10 temp HP. Aerin tries the soup +10 temp HP. Tam loses 2 HP.

Harpy info- rust harpies. There are 5-6 of them. They raise rust monsters…


Oct 1, 2023
Jordan is recanting what happened last week as though it’s Hannah’s fault for not remembering what was going on. It’s likely he is just reminding himself.

The house with the airships is “Lyrindar” and the teleporters are something else we can’t remember… Orien

Down the stairs into a room with a table and an Urn. Snake Aerin feels some faint vibrations coming from the east. Closed door to the west. We enter the eastern passage and all hear voices telling us to go south. Snake Aerin fails the most checks and only manages to just avoid being tricked into the room. Tam fired up detect magic and was able to detect a dream eater attached to the ceiling in the room. ROLL FOR INITIATIVE

This flying dream eater engulfs ozzy and starts psychic damaging him, plunging him into a nightmare.  We eventually kill that thing it leaves behind ashes worth 150gp. Then after messing with the urn for a bit and finding some copper coins inside we get bored of the urn and go into the heavy door to the west. We find a terrible creature (Catoblepas) that seems like a combination of made up or from a different system. It manages to wear out all the snake’s hit points and Aerin returns to their “normal” form. 

The cultists in the room had their tongue cut out and a symbol (from the aberrant, defunct house of “Voll” ?) is carved into their skin:
 
Room to the north of the slaughterhouse has mists above a few off the ground which emanate magic. Seems dangerous… To the south there is some sort of magical darkness which prevents us from seeing in the room. Emanates similar magic to the mists. We leave them both alone.

We find an old guy in a library (says his name is Gendrick). He claims to mostly be responsible for us ending up in this place and other shit cuz of his long planning (he crashed our ship!?). He’s afraid of the dalkyr returning as they are agents of chaos. Progenitor dragons locked the dalkyr into the world below with the help of the keepers. Gendrick claims to be a keeper. Recently some cults have discovered and stuff about the seals. 7 seals. 3 on the mortal, 3 on other planes, 1 on zoriat (realm of insanity?). Him and his cohorts have brought us together … strictly we needed 5 so I assume we’ll be 5 in the party. 

Recover the seven seals and bring them back to him at a tower in Sharn. (added to our quest list)	

Insight check reveals he’s not being entirely honest. He said he’s reserving some things for our own safety… and that we need to trust him for now. We’re not the only party involved. Once the seals are deposited, a separate group will take them to be replaced. He said we’re in this dungeon because we’re protected from scrying here (unlike everywhere else). He’ll pay us back for screwing up our job to protect the prince. We should use secret terms.

He has 2 surprises- to the south there is a room for resting. To the north, we meet a new friend. He gives Ozzy a book that outlines the location of all of the seals.

If we bring them back to Gendrick one at a time he’ll use them to give us cool stuff (dragon shard).

Ozzy goes back to tell the group that we’re struggling but doing ok… they had a banana that he took. They were playing twister and doing wall sits. The prince was working on a song about a ship crashing just like his heart. It’s not good. We find one phonebook of spells.

There is a room of mist that we need to breathe before we go into the magical darkness. In the portal room we find spiders and a mostly-naked guy who carved a symbol into himself (?). He has a ritual dagger (>25g).


Sep 17, 2023
Lady with white hair (the annoyed flight attendant also named Ylla) says she believes there’s a teleportation circle within a 5-mile radius. She said she works for people who run the teleportation circles (House Orien I believe), so she’d be the only one who can use it… so she needs to come with us too. She recommends checking out the house in the distance we can see.

We notice humanoid footsteps as we approach the weird building and a road that runs past the front of the building.

There’s an otyugh in the “sink.” Ew. There are mantises hiding in the walls and the bed was a mimic. This house sucks. There are two dressers- one has women’s clothes and one has men’s clothes. We find a library that seems like it’s a dead end. Lots of books about the planes of existence.

Tam finds a book about an Emerald pendant in Dal Quor (plane of dreams). Two different trap doors. One leads to a mushroom room. White mushrooms are probably poisonous as far as Tam can remember.

We ran into a lowstrider from a different plane. We kill it… 

Collected 2 blue and 2 red mushrooms. The room leaving the south of the mushroom room leads to a staircase.


Sep 6, 2023
We fight the elemental and we’re not able to keep the ship floating. We all enter onto the escape hatch with the prince. We eject from the main ship and descend into the mournlands. 
The ground is arid, gray sand. There are pillar molded sand cacti. Red Orange clouds in the sky that we pass through. Lightning crackles and the rain is acidic. The mean looking lady is giving us the safety briefing. 

We eventually set down and the doors opened back up. There is a large stone building off in the distance. The first drops of acid rain begin to sizzle on the ground and we LEVEL UP. 

Aug 20, 2023
Still in the warehouse
Send Aerin to report to Ashpeak. Comes back for csi shit
We go back to the station to talk to Ashpeak

Cross-referenced time tables and dignitary travel (Prince traveling on airship) ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT???!!?

Light-rail-senators traveling 

Ashpeak: Most troops dealing with previous explosions
	asks us to investigate/bodyguard
250gp/person (1250?)

featherfall token (code-word: "featherfallfeatherfallfeatherfall")

Things to do before boarding zeppelin:
Get info on the prince, Armand Jund
His name is Armand Jund
Birdpipes
Magnum opus
Met a guy who once met the prince (allegedly)
The prince started a band with three of his siblings
Practicing and trying to make his debut
Reconnoiter the boarding process
We're going first class! priority boarding and reduced scrutiny
Cargo -> First Class -> riff raff
First Class - Gets a wand waved and then tickets checked
Investigate the owner of the warehouse
go to city hall to look up title/deed
Has changed hands multiple times recently
One is an address in Cyre (probably no good)
Humphrey Fitzbottom - halfling
Second address is in Sharn
Senator Zarko Milkweed - name is familiar because he bought his way onto the senate, was pretty unknown before

We’re let onto the boat. Ylla gets “randomly” searched. We befriend the Prince of Breland. WE explore the ship and Tam finds the bombs in the hold. He tries to convince a French officer about it but he’s so skeptical. 

Ozzy gambles with some crew until one of the box punchers starts slitting the throats of the magic casters flying the boat. One of the casters attacks Ozzy. (What is going on?)

WE’re killing guys and pushing the explosives to the back of the ship. The cultists kill off enough of the casters and free an air elemental as the ship begins to crash. 

The boat is going down, the engine is freed as an air elemental, there are two people Ylla identified as possibly enemies (BLUE with Kick me signs) two casters still alvie who maye be able to save the ship.   

Gargoyle temple: Freed the gargoyle, he had been brainwashed/controlled by the Dalkyr lady Balasheera (Dalkyr: race of powerful demon people—trapped in underworld and sealed off by druids) Is this supposed to be right here?

soap guys were into Catachesma

Tam meet Bill Bowen on the airship and he is on his way to get to eiselcross. He thinks he’ll live forever, not too worried about the hazardous environment.

Ylla met a half-elf woman who is visiting her father’s family. She claims to be named Ylla, but seems pretty disinterested in having an actual conversation. She is also very unimpressed with the Prince

Durgan is a bounty hunter. He doesn’t share his secrets with other bounty hunters. He is after a bounty on the largest mountain cat who has killed a whole village of children. Durgan’s name was in Epstein’s black book

Ozzy talked all the crew into gambling away from the crates. Tam identified the crates that had the explosives. Ylla went upstairs to keep an eye on the other first class passengers. Tam talked to Captain Quince and told him there were explosives on board. He directed me to #2 who I also told about the situation. We decided we will push the crates out over the mournland in about an hour. In preparation, we pushed the crates to the back of the zeppelin.

Ylla is spending time talking to the other passengers to determine if there are any likely enemies aboard.

One of the crew slit the throat of one of the spellcasters starting a combat. 

The elemental was freed because not enough people were maintaining the spell…. and we’ll see you next time.
 
Jul 12, 2023

Searching the pirates for pirate loot we find:
Found 67 gold
Map to a turkey legged shaped island
There is an X on it



Capt. Ashpeak was concerned about our explosives knowledge and we’re going to go look into it.
Ylla knows some stuff about the warehouse. Never saw lights come on. Long row building, double doors in the front and back.
Aerin’s perception check: weird reflections off the glass for this time of day

Go in the back door after breaking the window. As soon as we cross the threshold we set off a security alert (uh oh) which is demanding us to provide the passphrase to disable the alarm.
“Soap” “Brea” “soap bombs” - no response
“Catechesma” - “password incorrect”
“Chatechesma, bringer of silence” - “password… incorrect”



On the desk:
Timetables of the lightning rail, airships, and goods runs along the main roads
Research documents on Dalkyr

Stacks of boxes- 3 stacks have 3 distinct symbols (3 dragonmarked houses)
Countermeasures were three robot samurai things. WE dispatched them but they did some damage. 

We inspect the boxes and they have dragonmarked houses on them with codes that will come in Slack later. The crates are packed with explosives. 
House Lyrandar
House Vadalis

Secret compartment in the table Finella pulled across the room. (350 gp and 1 potion of dominate person (no save if you can get someone to drink the whole thing), and 1 potions of greater healing)

8 sticks of dynamite worth of explosives

Timetables for zeppelins and trains:
Zeppelin is in 1-2 days
Light rail is in a week or so


Jun 26, 2023

Back in Wroat

Reviewed what Ylla knows

Shopping in Wroat
Scrolls: easy to get scrolls of cantrip/1/2 level, and can special order 3rd lvl
Ozwalt’s shop of curios and curiosities (we go there)
Want to ask about Dragon shards
Ozzy looks human, Aerin is Aaron
Ylla is going too- has a machine gun in his pouch
Dark purple inside- shelves & glass cabinets full of stuff
Ozzy asks about dragon shards
Ozwalt is wearing a turban
Dragon shards are from when Syberis was dispersed into the universe
He’ll give us 500gp-1500gp for a shard
Vary in size and rarity (small shard: banana, large shard: Torrey)
Most often they’re used in artificery
S-M shard: imbue 1 item with a magical property (eg. regular sword → +1 sword)
Interesting stuff
Finger trap- (opens w/ “open sesame”) (not for sale)




- look into the future 1x day (100gp)
Tam sees a red eye and hears a voice that says “tell me what you want to see…”
Tam: “what do I eat for breakfast tomorrow?”
Crystal Ball: skittering noise “you will skip breakfast, but there will be toast and ham for lunch”
Bottomless Bag- seems like you can keep putting stuff in it and taking stuff out (500gp)
Eye Shadow of Perception (+2 to perception, cannot hide) (75gp)
We buy all the stuff above
Immovable rod (5,000gp)
Cloak of many fashions - 
Cloak of protection (700gp)
Cloak of elven kind (700gp)

Ozzy finds a crown in the bag of holding. A rusty crown falls out- it’s magic.
It’s a communication thing- You can know the location of the other person and speak freely with them
Ozzy hears clicking. Can’t tell location. Health is full and HP-wise it’s like 600
Tells him to put on the crown again in 3 days time in goblin
Didn’t seem very nice. Kinda rude.
Ylla says it’s a dialect of abyssal

We go to the castle- much hustle and bustle and distraught
We ask for Capt. Ashpeak and the guy eventually leads us in
Big map- lots of officials looking at the map
Hear “explosions,” 3rd one
Semi-circular room, we enter on the flat side. Map on a big table, 2 men & a woman in military garb- seem high-ranking. Other people rushing in and out.
They don’t seem to know what’s going on or who did it
Aerin casts detect thoughts on woman
Seems the calmest, currently looking for a pattern on the map to see if they’re centered around a point, who the victims were (goes through names, Aerin doesn’t recognize them)
Oriah Devonspire
Darvin Devonspire
Zarick Farwin
Switch to the next guy: figuring out how many troops to send, where to send them, if they need to do a mandatory curfew
Switch to the captain: there were 3 explosions, he’s stressed out. He’s excited to see us.
We compliment Timothy & Steve (aka Jimothy)
They made it back!
We encourage the Captain to call Steve Jimothy
Tam mentions his house and there ensues an awkward discussion of dragonmark locations (and foot hair?)
250gp for info, if that info leads to an “arrest” then 750gp.
If we do the arrest, then double (or triple?)
Oz gives pamphlet to him from Woodhelm & tells the story of the explosives we’ve been following (which brought us to Wroat)

Capt Ashpeak can’t leave, but he’ll send Timothy & Jimothy with us

We head to the warehouse, but before we get there pirates attack! OH NO!!!

Killed all the pirates



Jun 19, 2023

Everyone is tired and doesn’t know how to play, but we’re gonna try.

Long discussion of the spelling of “affidavit” (that i in the middle is tough)

We go talk to Sheska and give her the affidavit. She makes us read it.

Sheska thinks we did a fuckimg amazing job. We got a dragon shard. She wants to “call on us again” in the future which none of us really knows what that means, but we figure it’s okay. Although she is a crazy medusa lady so who it’s tough to say. Apparently she appreciates delicacy in these types of matters. She’s not delicate, but I guess we are, kinda.

Tam hits on Sheshka a little and it gets weird.

We successfully long rest despite a little bit of sensitivity due to continually almost being attacked and killed. Aerin sleeps through it all.

Orcs have a dorsal fin. Finella does a performance check to determine something. (maybe who the orc was? Who watched us sleep? Creepy.)   Orcas eat fish, thus smell fishy. Just the facts folks.

Wolf den is found with fish farcuterie.

Pigs aren’t that dirty of animals. 

We head to Wroat. There’s a tree down and a small child is lying in front.

Aerin probes as deep as they can. Which isn’t as deep as one would expect. It’s not that it’s not satisfying, it’s just different. 
“Do I hear people coming?”
Aerin senses that the child (?) isn’t being totally truthful

Jordan told me I need to probe deeper. Deeper I shall probe.

Aerin is hearing the conversation that is going on, because they cast, detect thoughts. 

Tam paralyzes the child
	Aerin hears the child straining
	Oz asks about an ambush- the child thinks “no”

How heavy is this log exactly?

We move the log and an arrow and two guys jump out from behind a rock

The most predictable thing in the world happened and there is a totally random group of people now trying to killing us. Even though we were super careful and annoyingly slow, it still happened. Ugh. The little pervert child is trying to touch Aerin which seems to be some sort of kink.

 Two bad guys come out of the woods somehow. They hid behind a rock?

Ylla blasted a fool and then moved. Green guys fires a short bow at aerin for a pathetic 8. Red guy fire for a 10 to hit… which is an obvious miss against Aerin. Aerin turns in a dinosaur because why not. Aerin is in position to bite their butts… primo… 3 attack

Child was disguised… it’s a SKELETON!!! (Karnathi!)

Green guy runs up to Aerin and does whatever you could describe as bringing the opposite of the pain. 

LOOT:
36gp
Fine leather armor- 100gp
4 short bows


May 31, 2023

It’s been forever. No one knows what has happened or how to play this game. FACTS

Karnath -> Gargoyles -> hustrusa da medusa 
              |^|
          Find this and we get a dragon shard from Sheshka

Gargoyles speak Terran

We hide the gargoyle bodies. Ylla BRAVELY misty steps into the fog of war inside the keep beyond the locked gate. How will this rash behavior affect our feline friend? Unfortunately, he’s not a webbing expert so is having trouble. Finally, after focusing, he is able to locate a mechanism for opening the portcullis. Ozzy tries to manually lift the gate providing help to Ylla on the strength check to crank, and crank he did. MeeeeWow 🐈

Once inside we see portcullisi that aren’t portcullisi at all, but are actually just doors. We are attempting to check for stuff but not doing well. Ozzy and Ylla carefully coordinate in an attempt to open the doors at the same time, but actually Ozzy’s door is locked because Jordan wasn’t paying attention when Dustin checked. Luckily he shouldered through the door somehow. Initial description of what is behind the door is quite underwhelming. Ozzy is convinced that we have a spider’s nest situation and is going to cast a firebolt at it because he’s creeped out by spiders. Aerin made middling perception checks despite the advantage based on using keen senses. Instinctually Ylla checks if there are things on the ceiling? There don’t appear to be. Tam complains that we’re being slow. Ylla checks the door and opens it. 

Next room… FINALLY… a couple of web wrapped things. Probably going to try and kill us. Aerin the wolf obviously doesn’t have darkvision and can’t see anything. No one in the group doesn’t anything or suggests a way to remedy this. Additional failed perception checks lead to no more useful information about what is going to sneak attack us. Stench of death is in the room, but Aerin can’t see anything so not much happening. Tam got up in there and felt around while investigating the bodies. He was so far up in there he was only able to figure out that it’s not too many days old. 

We open another door and there’s a spider and an ogre and a gargoyle and some mushrooms.
They appear to be a death metal band in the middle of practice and they look very annoyed. We roll initiative. Tam starts out with an exceptional turn and throws an ice knife. Ylla casts that thing that makes it hurt when they go through it over most of the room. 

Sidebar: Does rearing back imply motion from the spot?
Opportunity for amicus brief

Ozzy does that warlock eldritch blast double-tap (illegally) from the other room.
Finella wastes an arrow.
Aerin decides to tank against three bad guys in the brambles. Many wonder aloud where this fearlessness was when Hannah was playing an actual tank. Predictably, Aerin gets punked by the spider and loses wolf shape. They are now surrounded by bad guys and a simple changeling… What will they do to counter??? Is this Aerin’s last adventure???

Finella totally bails out Aerin and kills the spider which results in the other baddies being stunned. Then Aerin runs out of the room leaving only the wizard alone in the corner inside a magical spider web.

Random orc runs in… takes a whole bunch of spike growth damage like a goober.

Sidebar: Spike Growth most overpowered 2nd level spell? Goes through doors, walls, and anything else which benefits the PCs.
Opportunity for amicus brief #2

Tam throws yet another stellar (not my words) ice knife.

Another random orc runs in.

Aerin kills old new random orc w/ flaming sphere. Aerin then aggressively turns on the new new orc and looks like she’s going to die. Aerin kills new new random orc w/ flaming sphere. It’s a pretty chaotic experience and Aerin seems quite upset.

There is a great hall adjacent, tables and chairs. 

We find a chest we can’t open.

On a desk in the ranch castle, we find a rubbing that Tam can read (maybe some kind of Abyssal?): “When a child of Brea meets a rocky fate, a seal will break upon the gate.”
Breland is named after Brea- one of the daughters of the Emperor before the war- Brea was Breland’s ruler
Child of Brea is someone from Breland, probably?
We find ~37g worth of stuff
Hidden drawer w/ 17g

Large gargoyle tied and gagged in the room
Ozzy un-gags him
Cairngorm- leader of the gargoyle camp
He fears that spiders are taking over his people and were after the prophecy they found

He’s thinking of an evil looking lady named Baleshyrra- “the spiders always bring tidings of the evil one” she may be working with someone to steal and fulfill the prophecy- to release her (Baleshyrra)

He seems confused about medusas- says they are allies

Karnathis may be in league with the spiders… maybe there’s a Karnathi cult of Baleshyrra 🤔

He gives us a signed affidavit for his statement for what happened with the naga/Karnathi

The chest is glowing…? The most wonderful scent surrounds us and we level up to 5!!!
May 9, 2023

More Ylla’s findings: good sense of comings & goings. Vagrants around. People come in and leave predictably with crates.

Sheshka is willing to let us use a teleportation circle to allow us to go get Ylla.

Ylla is a kangaroo panther. He has a pouch (?) Ylla hates gargoyles. They’re assholes.

History roll- Gargoyles:
Grimstone Keep
A lot of goblins & orcs- led by Cairn Gorm. He’s a “nebassu” Gargoyle.
It’s an actual Keep- they might need some masonry work
There are travelers in Droaam- stopping by to stay and resupply wouldn’t be weird

Something about donkey beer- for donkeys by donkeys FDBD

Grimstone Keep is dylaptatpezd “a state of disrepair”
A couple statues that are definitely not gargoyles
Portcullis is down (shut)- no other living creatures
Ozzy knocks on hte door and two gargoyles fly down and attack us. (roll for initiative) 


Apr 10, 2023

Ylla’s findings: Mostly vacant- some shipments of crates have come in and left (they look the same). 1 person (different people, at least 4) during the day. Lights don’t come on at night (maybe vacant or darkvision)
Tails ¾ people:
Thought the first guy was onto him, but he went north of the city
Second guy- same direction (northeast of city) to larger apt building
Lost track of this guy

Going to keep staking it out

Back to the wagon…

Jimothy (Steve) took the karnath logo’d wagon back to Wroat.

About to enter Droaam
Run by Daughters of Sora Kell (1 sees the future, 1 who is charismatic, 1 who is warlike)
Brought warlords together into an alliance for the first time
Not recognized as an actual nation by the other nations
11 different “packs” with warlords- who have pledged their allegiance to the Daughters
Medusas are the smallest faction

We’re with Hastrusa the Medusa
Her goblin is getting better
2-3 factions she suspects of helping to kidnap her
Not giants (not sneaky), Harpies maybe- they’ve been fighting w/ Lycanthropes, Venom-lords: tieflings, gargoyles
She thinks it’ll go pretty smoothly to bring her back to her sisters

We arrive at Silverlake
3 naga standing on the edge of the lake
Josh (tam) yelled at Kate (finella) not to shoot anyone
They’re waving down our caravan (Hannah cant type cuz she’s eating a lime popsicle)
They start off acting like dicks immediately. Oz is introducing Hastrusa the medusa to the jerk Nagas. 
Nagas: “Where are you taking her?” (right in front of her)
Oz: “Ask her, she’s right here”
Nagas: “We will escort her to the crag”
Us to Hastrusa: “You cool with that?”
Hastrusa to Tam: “Can you read their minds, like you did mine”
Tam: “Of course”
Tam detects thoughts “I think this is the one, Karnath was the one they were looking for”
We try to get them to let us leave and then one draws their sword

We kill the 3 naga- Hastrusa doesn’t fight, which is a little annoying
They don’t really have loot. Also annoying.
Oz kicks them all into the lake.

The rest of the trip is uneventful and we make it to Graywall Mountains
Lots of caves carved into the mountains
Hastrusa is playing a tour guide- she seems to be liking us a bit more
We go to Turakbar’s Fist- it’s not as cool as it seems like it should be. There’s some rocks that “look like a fist” (they don’t). The story of the battle is interesting- Turakbar was half-orc and Brelish.
Actually a Fortress of one of the Minotaur half-orc clans
Hastrusa says someday we need to go to Blackwater Lake (the water is actually black)- it’s on the bucket list
Someone buys a t-shirt that says “I got fisted at Turakbar’s fist” - the bar sells punch. It’s a dumb place. It’s called “Turak’s Bar”.
The way is rocky, barren landscape with holes- Moab-esque

We make it to the Crag. It’s great.
We see it from 50 miles away- huge spire that looks like half-palace, half-mountain
Not much traffic on the road
Doors to the Crag are 60 ft tall (they must be compensating for something) w/ goblin guards
There is lots of goblin language practice. Apparently all goblins sound the same (kinda like they’re from Jersey… but little).
We explain that we’re bringing Hastrusa back- he recognizes her

We park our horse and cart and then they’ll take us to meet Sheshka (the queen of stone)
They think the gargoyles were the culprits & in league with the Karnathis
Sheshka thinks they need evidence
“If you would be willing to obtain evidence of the gargoyles’ corruption, kidnapping, & collusion, I’d be willing to part with a dragonshard”

Gargoyles:
They hang out in Grimstone Keep

We stay for a feast as guests of Sheshka
We see all the factions: Lyconthropes, Fire giant w/ ogres & hill giants, Harpies, Kethylrax the “cunning” (kobold lord), Sora Katra (military lady) is mingling, Resh Turakbar (minotaur), Xarian Rack (oni) 
We see the gargoyles, but don’t see anything suspicious
We’re asked to stay inside all night- it’s not safe




Apr 2, 2023

Back to the castle in Wroat

Capt Ass-peek: we explain what happened. He said the kids can go to the refugee camp.
He has another thing that might be better suited for us (he realizes that maybe we don’t want to join the Shields) and might be better for a freelance group
Shipment Karnathi’s are bringing back to Karnath from Droaam (thinks it’s a weapon of war)
Make sure it doesn’t get back to Karnath (30g/piece)
If we find helpful information, they’ll provide a minimum finders free of 25g

Oz is covered in mud, but looks like he’s wearing a tux - VERY IMPORTANT
Tam touches Oz… does in fact get mud on his hand

Capt Ashpeak tell us about the shipment to Karnath and how to intercept. He recommends doing it while they’re in Breland.

We make a plan:
We’re going to take a quick route to XANDRAR
Heading west/south from there along the road w/ hawk familiar to scout ahead to get info about them
Plan proper ambush, probably between Xandrar & border

We interview the guys who drop us off and meet Timothy- he passed salt AND pepper and fixed his sword mistake

Aerin talks to the horses:
There are some narrow spots in the road, the horses get nervous when they have to pass

Finella is dancing to attract guys at a bar:
A guy comes up and dances with her- she asks about ambushes & the road
There’s a blind corner that he hates
She leaves when things get weird

Oz (looks like normal human w/ black eye & bandage) and Tam are hanging in the bar (the Rusty Rivet)- strike up a chat w/ bartender & others. Delivering barrels of mead into Passage- got ambushed buy guys in masks. Wrecked cart and missed wedding.
Bartender heard most people who get hurt along the road fall off the side into the lake
People travel w/ bodyguards, so not many looters or bandits
Road is rough and narrow
Is there an experienced bodyguard that you know of that is available?
Yes- Hank Twoswords

Oz goes to talk w/ Hand Twoswords
Watch out for Deadman’s Curve, but it’s not too bad
Peabody’s- don’t go there after dusk (be through there during the day- it’s hard to see)
Always bring a spare wheel
If you start to slip off the edge, lash the cart to the ground
Learn mending

Ethan hawk (Tam’s familiar)
3 wagons on the road- the one we think is the one we’re looking for has a driver that is an undead in lighter armor, another man walking alongside (undead) in half plate

Note on Undead: hard to kill- they roll con save when they go to 0 (radiant/crit dmg ignores)

We attack the undead guardians of the cart and win (there was a web and a sphere of darkness)
The “weapon” is a medusa
Finella shot her… in the knee? It is ok though, I guess… she was a little mad about it
She said she was taken from her sisters
The undead experiment sometimes- try to use her powers
She’s from Droaam- she lives in the Crag
Name: Hastrusa the Medusa
We convince her to go from unfriendly to indifferent



Mar 4, 2023

Need to go to the castle to talk w/ the King’s Shields about the poachers (we saw a thing on a bulletin board about getting rid of poachers)

“We” forgot we had a place to stay. Thank goodness we have notes.

We go to the castle
Guard (Geralt) seems to be confused. Thinks we’re new recruits to the Kings Shields
We will be under the austicipeses of the Kings Shields
Half-Elf guide (Uuuuuuhhh Donald)
Offers us some armor & weapons
We each get a healing wand (worth 25g/apiece)
Farmer GJohnson keeps having his boars stolen (taken at night)
Captain Ashpeak
Return with captured criminal/monster, but if we kill it, bring back the head (plz don’t kill humanoids if possible- bring them back for refugee camp)
After, maybe you’ll consider employ in the King’s Shields (or more freelance work)
We should consider this an opportunity to get in with the King’s Shields for future opportunities & tasks

Aerin: interested in a Raven trainer for a scam they and Ozzy want to run. The king shields has a hawk trainer (no ravens), but the principles should be the same for training
He’d be happy to take on Aaron as a student
A trainer out near the GJohnson farm might have ravens

Farm is on the north bank
On the way we see a gentleman in the field- calling animals back and forth (assume that’s the animal trainer). See a sign: “Old Tuckermans”

Farmer GJohnson
Said he saw a chupacabra
And that the chupacabra runs away if it sees people, so we should hide in the barn

On the farm
Aerin turns into a boar & monitors from within the herd (Aerin Bo-urr)
Ozzy discusses with the kids (changelings) and convinces them to stop killing boars
They are killing boars for their gang
We’re going to ask GJohnson to take care of them (or hire them for pig poo shoveling) while we go after the gang
Camp is very close
Should be 4 gang people in the camp
At the Camp
We encounter 2 awakened poachers and 2 sleeping
They have a pen of 4 dire wolves
One of them is a caster who blasts the shit out of us with a lightning bolt (it sucks)
He is badly burned and scarred on his face
We triumph! And loot the bodies…
LOOT:
Spellbook:
Cantrips (at will): mage hand, minor illusion, poison spray, ray of frost
1st level (4 slots): mage armor, magic missile, shield, witch bolt
2nd level (3 slots): web
3rd level (3 slots): lightning bolt
4th level (3 slots): Evard’s black tentacles, greater invisibility
Coin pouches: 37 gp
Meat (rations for 2-3 wks)
Cattle prod wand (knocks target unconscious- for low hp characters)

We let the wolves out (Aerin tells them to move along), we put the gangsters in the wheelbarrow and head back to town. We stop by farmer GJohnson’s and escort the changelings back to the castle.



Feb 19, 2023

A poker game happens. We win 262 gp.
Sharn built on manifest zone
	Connection between plains
	floating towers 
Wroat- capital
	Massive walled city- city center in center of a river

Before we leave we turn in the diary (25 gp)

We got a cart and two donkeys
Aerin drives- she can talk w/ the donkeys (Earl- Righty & Merle- Lefty)
Lefty is a bit shifty

Our cart breaks down- the wheel is broken, but we have a spare

Our cart breaks down AGAIN
3 guys approach the cart and offer to fix the cart
Vibe check- they’ll help, but they want $$
They fix it for 9 gold after some negotiating. 
We get to Wroat. There’s a customs checkpoint that makes use of a zone of truth spell. 
Tam fills us in on wrote
Kings shields
Kings wands
Dark lanterns

We pass Wroat’s Zone of Truth at the gate and into the city
“Not quite Woodhelm, eh guys?” - Tam

<a long discussion of what the applicable analogy for Wroat is within the US/world>

Kings shields (quest board): kill the poachers

Man walking down the street- red & gold suit w/ 8 silver rings
Sees Aaron- has a conversation about Jorth- he wants to see him
Come to the house
Name: Peldron Malaur

We make it to a fairly reputable Inn: “The Bottomless Cauldron”

Rumors from the bartender.
The houses have been feisty lately. Ever since the end of the was Lerendor are acting like hot shit because they control travel. The big swinging staffs so to speak. 
A gentleman looking for artifacts from the moreholds. - we accept his card. 
He’s going to send up potato skins and boar bacon later for dinner. And beer (apparently it’s good)

East-side Warehouse
Ylla tries to walk by and can’t find the address
He asks someone the neighborhood and say “this doesn’t seem like your kinda place…”
Ylla finds the address- warehouse on the east side of the city center on the docks
this address is not busy compared to the warehouses around it. only one person enters (with clipboard), remains for 20 min and leaves—doesn't even turn on light
Ylla follows him until he leaves the central island by the northeast bridge and stopped following there


Feb 16, 2023

Aerin reads #6s thoughts:
6: “The shipments need to go out”
6: “He doesn’t know I can’t hear” - Aerin tells Ozzy he can’t hear
Ozzy send him messages
6: “I need to get out of here”
O: What were you doing in there?
6: “They were ingredients to be turned into the exports”
6: “The exports? There’s the raw soap and of course the explosives”
O: Where were you exporting them to?
O: What’s your name?
6: We don’t have names…
O: We’ve found a symbol who is talking to Ylla… do you know what that is?
6: He’s been touched! By Catechesma!
O: what were you in charge of?
6: Boiling
O: What came out?
6: I told you- soap and explosives
O: Is this a job for you? Are you part of a religion?
6: I serve the great lord, Catachesma, the bringer of silence
O: You see that dead guy? #2? Was this your boss?
6: #7 was my boss
O: Did she report to anyone else?
6: She was in charge of the shipments. She’d get people in the cart… and then brought the people and then we’d load the cart and she’d leave.
O: Do you ever leave? If we let you go, where will you go?
6: Probably one of those addresses inside
O: What if they burned up?
6: Uhhh…
O: Let’s take it way back… tell me about your childhood
6: I was born in the depths of Sharn- played in the streets. Stickball was my favorite. Wasn’t very good at stickball. I heard a voice in a dream one time… I saw a staircase and heard a voice and it told me to come to Woodhelm. It told me about the world and what it was like before all this- before the noise and the magic. A world we could return to. We just had to concentrate- and we could do that by not being distracted. We vowed to be silent and to remove our hearing.
O: How old are you, 6?
6: 37
O: How long have you been abducting people?
6: 2 years
O: did you work up to melting bodies?
6: Yeah, I used to collect the bodies, and then moved to melting. It’s quieter work.
O: Alright 6, don’t get into trouble. Don’t melt people.
6: “It was the nicest thing we could do to them. It’s not the soap. It’s the silence”
O: Before we let you know, what happens if you get to the new place and there’s already a #6? Do you have to fight it out.
6: Yes, probably… but maybe I could be 16! I like that…
O: Anything else valuable you guys had?
6: Scrolls that were on the explosive crates


Ylla investigates the wreckage:
Metal desk: shipping manifests (apparently also known as a “bill of lading” if you’re a nerd), and 254 gp, 17 sp
Addresses: Wroat, Lower Quarter of Sharn
Symbol on the Manifest to Wroat- changes and shifts as you look at it…
“You could be the next—do you want the power? The power of concentration? Think of the possibilities…”
Ylla: Hey Catechesma
“Join me…”
Ylla: No thanks
Ylla shows it to Finella- she doesn’t hear anything
“You have made a mistake…”
Ylla: no thanks.
Metal Tanks:
There’s a fat skimmer on each with 2 tubes & two different processing drums
Smells like agar. Gross.
Ylla now knows all of our scents.
Ylla checks the front boxes because Finella didn’t do a good job
He finds raw soap

We let #6 go.

We go back to the mayor’s house.
Tam is invisible and sneaks past as we start telling the tale of our adventure w/ the cult
He finds the secret space and opens the panel
Large mirror in the space, desk w/ some candles, some very elegant outfits
Detect magic
wand of magic missile (10 charges)
a book with a latch (magic lock)
Invisibly sneaks out of the house
Ylla shows the manifest and Ozzy explains what happened
Mayor Flavius has heard of Catachisma
Ylla explains that Flavius should probably send the constables back to the place we just blew up
The mayor says he’ll send word to Wroat and Sharn to warn them
He goes to get a dragon shard (purple). If we find an artificer, we can:
use to imbue our stuff with magical properties
trade for an item or can add properties

POKER TIME!
5 total at the table (Ozzy & Tam are playing)
10 rounds:
Anti 2 gp
Each player roles 5 d12
Betting round
Show 2 d20s
Betting round
Final reveal






Feb 6, 2023

Going to go talk to Flavius (mayor guy) about the cult. And maybe check out his house for a future diary-stealing adventure.

He says he has a Kyber shard that he’ll give us in exchange for help with the cult situation.

“We don’t need interference from other enforcement agencies” when asked about the law people from Wroat
We told him about the wolves in the cave w/ the dagger

For the cult (when asked what he’d like us to do):
What is going on?
What is the purpose of what they’re doing?
End what they’re doing
Is there another base of operations?
Recover lost people if possible

Ozzy can’t find the diary

Flavius plays weird music

We take a walk around the house- weird unaccounted-for space in the upper floor (probably part of the closet that Ozzy missed).

From BBB + Devlin Ashton - 
Catechesma - Daelkyr - bringer of silence, keeper of silence, the quietess
Instrumental in removing dwarves from Mror Holds, eventually pushed back
Locked away w/ 4 keys. Most often carried by sect of druids (known as the gatekeepers)
Goal of cult is likely to release Catechesma
No idea where the keys are. Check w/ Druids.
NOT LITERAL KEYS - small child (e.g.)
But also maybe literal keys.
But also maybe not
Daelkyr may be immortal… that’s bad.

We buy book about Catechesma

Gatekeeper druids
Live on the western slopes of the Eldeen Reaches


Going to deal with a cult
Ozzy turns into Mayor Flavius
We set the building on fire
We VERY SLOWLY kill everyone
There was an explosion

Next time: Tam is going to interrogate #6 (who isn’t talking)


Feb 3, 2023

We go to plan the knife, and we can’t find the body of Southy McSouthface
We think it was a pack of dire wolves

We track the wolves- there are 3 in a cave
We toss the knife into the cave and leave

We go to the wagon and planned a sting where Aerin pretends to be fat and Ozzy pretends to be Boaty McBoatFace and turn in the fat guy
Goes pear-shaped fast
Ozzy turns into the blue bad guy, Ozzy gets found out
Aerin gets knocked down
Aerin turns into a dinosaur
The other bad guys can't tell 
we chase them away with ozzy still looking like the blue guy

We follow the caravan to a building with lots of steam
It smells brothy

Ozzy goes into the building (disguised) and checks it out
They weren’t talking
They’re very very possibly killing people (and eating them?)

Lots of dragons.. Cult of the dragon’s below… silent ones are catechesma 


Jan 15, 2023

We fight some guys…

PERSON: We interrogate Southy McSouthface

GROUP: Boaramar (sp?) clan- largest criminal group in Khorvaire
Run by halflings
They wanted Tam
“If you kidnap people then you can get extra money”
Apparently because he’s small (?)
Pretty sure it was just because they just wanted to kidnap people
He offers to come back to the hideout- there may be extra money or jobs
He admits that the Boramar’s didn’t send them

There’s a job (unsure from who) looking for “chunky people” to kidnap…
At midnight: meet wagons at the river east of the fish hatchery

LOOT: Tam takes Boramar clan token

Oz and Aerin chat w/ Southy to learn more about him (he’s from Breland)

PLACE: We go to the tavern- it’s a new one East of town called “The Second Left Foot”
Nemo Havenheart (halfling barkeep) has good hair

Tam shows his dragonmark and Nemo buys him a drink

Southy admits he went after the job that “he was told not to” and Nemo is really mad.
Nemo doesn’t know where that job came from
“Shady dude” knocked on the back door, talked to an assistant, assistant relayed the message, Nemo said no, and that was the end of the story
Assistant is off tonight

We go into the back with Nemo to listen to some opportunities:
Weekly card game in Wunderbar- if Boramar helps one of the players, then they get some of their winnings. If you’d like to help…
We’ll get 70% of the 70% if he wins
We can get a dealer in there
The game is on Flurbsday
Law enforcement is trying to find a knife that killed an official in Rote
Would be a shame to find “this knife” (shows the knife)
Maybe put it on one of the bodies?
25g each for this one
Flavius Fairweather is the town mayor-kinda of Woodhelm
Steal his diary from his house so they have some dirt on him
30g for Finella, 25g for the rest

Tell Nemo what we’re interested in when we decide…

Oz plays some cards… Aerin heads to the bathroom (and returns as a tiny spider)
Tam and Finella watch him play
Aerin is on the far wall

Nemo asks if Oz is interested in being “the player” for the weekly game?
This cuts out the 30% that the other player would owe





Jan 1, 2023 Session 1

Short rest & chat

Finella (was Buddy the Elf who became Dindonette) is the great-great Granddaughter of Dindonette- and Finella now uses Dindonette’s bow (can sense danger) and talks to her
Looking for a home
From Sarlona- seems secretive about where…
Fought for anyone she wanted to- mostly against goblins
Deity: leaning towards Procan, also Valanar elven ancestry



Tamariam- known as Tam
Definitely doesn’t have a gambling problem
From Breland- knows the area well
Tam is young and didn’t fight in the war
Family has some hostility with Droaam, trying to keep tensions down
Deity: likes the food and goes to feasts… not super religious, but goes through the motions
House Madani: dragonmarked half-elves (mark of detection)
Tam has a dragonmark- in his armpit
Things are “great” with relations with the house

Ylla is from Xen’drik
Exploring Khorvaire
Arrived a year ago and missed the war- but heard about it
Because of the hardship created from the lack of trade due to the war, Ylla got into being a mercenary
Deity: born Cat-thlic, but not practicing. The sovereign host includes “the cat lord” and community of faith in Stormreach was mostly cultural.

Oz is from Aundair- farm outside of Areksul
Farming background
Left farming because it sucked and didn’t make money
Someone (Grelnas) killed his donkey (Rudy) and took his cart in Zarash’ak (in the Shadow Marshes)
Has an alternate form (Ned Heershen) who looks like a human
He moved “goods” during the war
Deity: Olladra: good fortune
Played cards w/ a dragonmarked guy named “Leith”- he never explained what it was
Sold some incense to a house

Aerin is from Cyre
Community & family were killed in the war
They turn into a big human man named Aaron
Aerin and Oz know each other and scam people together
Deity: The Traveler: trickster, chaos, & change
Has encountered aberrant dragonmarked folks


Additional Dragonmark info: https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/erftlw/character-creation-dragonmarks#Chapter1CharacterCreationDragonmarks


PLACE We head up river and find a shack and steam is pouring out of the vent on top. 
Tam says it smells hot, earthy, and dead. He checks the water and feels something “unhealthy” in the stream.

There’s a guy outside the shack and he’s unfriendly. Tam sees that there are vats inside. Oz finds some buckets of sludge.

Aerin turns into a spider to investigate
Female walking on a balcony
2 massive vats- look like brewing kettles w/ open tops. Steam is funneling up through the smokestack in the ceiling
Man turning a big crank on a piece of machinery- looks like a long roll of some type of fiber is moving on rollers. He moves a box from the machine to a pile of boxes.

Aerin turns into Aaron and Oz turns into “Prawn” and we use the disguise kit to become “environmental inspectors.” And talk with Jarreth.

PERSON Sadie (the manager) offers 100g and says they’ll stop printing tomorrow

INFO Pamphlets say House Canith is trying to re-start the forges and they must be stopped.
They have evidence and spies
People have seen forge fires start up
Mostly hearsay but some compelling info
Name of their group is The Anti-War Heroes
Canith tower in Sharn is the closest forge to us

Sadie hands us a bag of 100g
She gets 8sp from Don
We tell the group they gave us 50g to leave and divide it up

Oz turns into Braw Grange and knocks on the shack- and lets them know if they need any saws he has some in town for purchase.

LOOT We stop by Doona’s fish hatchery to let her know that the pollution will stop tomorrow.
She gives us hickory fish jerky that gives us 5 temp hp lasts until long rest
We can come back if we want to buy more jerky (unsure how much it costs…)

Finella’s bow starts vibrating and she alerts us to danger…
3 burly dudes jump out of the shadows dressed in dark clothes with hoods and say “get the little one”... they try to grab Tam





Dec 19, 2022 Session 0
We start in Woodhelm (Breland)

PLACE Bar: Wuunderbar
Proprietor’s name is Timo
Timo’s wife is a half elf: her name is Aisha
Fenrick is missing?
Ylla was partnered with Fenrick to do some “tree jacking”
Saw him at work today
He’s a bigger human dude… pudgy
“Not like him to miss a meal”
Ylla asks if anyone else has gone missing…
Timo doesn’t want to make a big deal of it, but several people have gone missing. Like, the twins, and a few other people who were coming through town, but they’re just gone
There was something similar about them… they were all pudgy
Buddy makes Timo a recorder. He loves it.

PERSON Braw Grange: the blacksmith
He’s selling small whiskey barrels for 2 silver each
He’s struggling and barely making ends meet by making wine barrel bands (“hoops”)
A guy named Greg comes once a week to pick up hoops
He’s looking for a wood worker to partner with to make barrels or saws… there’s no good wood workers in town, though

PLACE Bookstore & Alchemy shop: Bird Brained Books (beaks and sundries) 
Devlin Ashton- arakkokra proprietor (seems flighty… ha ha)
He’ll get us a list of books that have gone missing
There was a book about soap making that is missing…
Dustin gets an inspiration point
He steals 12 empty vials

PLACE Fish hatchery: yet to be named
Doona Whipperwill: Furbolg
On the Dagger River
Doona saw a couple that came up the river that said they’d come back by, but they haven’t
They were chubby memorable
Staying at the tavern
Runoff that’s very smelly is ruining the water
The walkways are wide
Josh’s wizard (Tamariam- Tam) detects high levels of Nitrogen from something upstream

Aussie sells us  10 x 4-loco as “Professor Claudia” for 2 silver each
Buddy drinks 2 of them

The group heads upstream…

FIGHT We are fighting rhinos (that looked like cows)
Buddy the Elf becomes Dindonette
Ylla does a cool vines thing
LOOT Ozzy & Aerin get 7 Rhino horns
5 sp each


