We hear a heavy footstep and Ozzy cracks a door and describes what he sees to Tam, and Tam says it’s a Barlgura (vegan demon). Ozy kicks open the door and the fighting begins. 

We fight two of those guys and they’re scary but we kill them and find a secret door.

We find Ayren Griffenstone’s grave in a flooding library. He was good at illusion magic.

Tam finds a holding cell.

Tam finds 4 books in the library:
Book describing the eye and hand of Vecna (1 of a kind masterpiece, little water damage 250gp (400gp if repaired)
Book of nonsensical poetry “Quite Good Verse”
Scroll: Greater Invisibility
Scroll: Major Image

We hear a women’s voice “You are required to get me out of here! Immediately!”
Ozzy opens the door - it is Savia Patella!

Ozzy ask Savia about the secret she’s keeping and Aerin reads her thoughts. They hear that the King of Gallifar has an heir??

We read a lot in Jarrot (??)’s book that they’re casting a ritual and using the people who have been kidnapped. We found an empty cell earlier… that might be something to consider for fireball throwing.

We bust in and there are a group of nothics and some sort of cult leader caster. A hanging cage in the center and a group of cultists on the far side. 

We think it might be Gendrick in the cage. 

WE take out the caster and move on the the gnothics. As they break concentration some sort of arcan vibration and tear starts to form. Looking into the cage there is only a pile of rags. 

The tear grows to the height of the ceiling and Gendrick appears to be on the other side. He’s arguing with someone and he may be tied to a chair. 

Ozzy trust-falls into the tear. He falls onto a wooden floor and Gendrick recognizes him. Ozzy asks if we all should join and Gendrick says yes. Ozzy waves us through and we step through the tear.

We’re in a square wooden room 50ft x 50ft. The room is lit evenly but we can’t see how. There are some red curtains and a single wooden chair and Gendrick is bound to it. There’s a guy with no right eye and his left hand is glowing standing over him.

“Lord Vecna, your power is great, but you underestimate the power of distraction! BUY ME SOME TIME!”

We’re fighting him and it isn’t going well. Vecna rushes Gendrick, grabbing him by the throat. He growls, it's over and the seals have been spread throughout the multiverse. Blinding white light!! 

We’re in a beautiful plush room and there are 3 figures facing away from us and moving their hands over something we can’t see…

WE level up! 
