We take the broom and ferry up to the 3rd floor landing. The 4-7 floors all have vigorous vines which cover all the windows. The 8th floor has no windows. Finella breaks the window and we end up inside, though there’s a vine who tries to attack Tam as he goes to get Aerin. Ozzy fire bolts the vine and apparently it liked it?

There are original glyphs and new symbols cover them (more angular and more recent). Finella recognizes them… they’re the same as we saw in the vault. It weakens the structure of the vault. It’s probably having a similar effect here. The vines look similar as well. Ozzy notices the symbols don’t seem complete… something interrupted the carving of them. Tam is dumb and doesn’t know what’s going on. Aerin thinks there’s another stone room below us.

4th floor: no window light (covered by vines). Finella sees something moving on the ceiling… there are bats (made of the tendrils) swarming at us… we kill the bats and find 2 copper on a shelf of the bookcase. Once we kill the bats our HP starts regenerating again.

5th floor (outside stairwell between 4 and 5): 5th floor is wider (which seems architecturally questionable). There’s a body tangled in vines. Arenal elf - just dead. Unsure how they died. Seems like it’s been less than a month-ish? It has a leather satchel that Finella finds. It has a journal, small kit of measuring tools, and a compass.

Journal: Ithrael Vonane (?) studied Irian. Architectural notes about the tower. “The tower isn’t a monument… the lower glyphs are decorative, but the upper ones are functional. The purpose of the tower is the mechanism at the top. The pendulum is motionless. The clock is designed to hold a moment - the first breath of dawn. The seal is embedded within the gear housing. The seal and the mechanism are interdependent. Someone has been here - the mechanism has been moved 30 degrees clockwise from its intended position. I’ve sketched the dial - the horizon line bisected by a line… to retrieve the seal the mechanism would need to be moved back to it’s regular position.

6th floor: the air is cold this far up - the dawn light is coming from below (?) above the tower gets wider… we can see the mechanism in the top of the tower. Tam finds more fresh carvings in the wall: “Turning back… waiting for corruption to weaken edifice.” We find a platinum piece in a bookcase.

7th floor: In the floors up higher we see that something is blocking the mechanism above… the 7th floor landing is the biggest interior space. High ceiling (15ft), cult markings covered in vines. One of the vine piles in the corner starts to move… His name was Steven. He has an icky aura but we manage to take him out. Tam paralyzes it and Finella crit it a few times and Ozzy took it out. One of the carvings on the wall says “Steven wuz here.” Towards the roof of this floor, the vines recede… 

8th floor: Cold stone gives way to darker marble and then flecks of metal… a grand archway is at the top. There’s an “the breath before first light cannot be forced. Release what holds it. Slow what drives it. Name the hour, then hold the moment.”
The chamber is much wider than the flow below. There’s a large pendulum on the west side. 50 ft tall and domed. Lots of gears. None are moving. The seal is inside the mechanism - the gears are in the way. There are levers on the north south and east sides
North: release/hold
East: slow & reverse
South: dial first light mark is a horizon line bisected by a single rising ray (matches sketch in journal) - the dial is past the horizon line by 29.7 degrees.

We solve the puzzle and kill some bats. A lady flickers in and claps for us… we have the impression she’s somewhere else. Aerin has the impression that this might be a manifestation of Katechesma. She asks if we’re trying to free her.

She knows Ozzy’s name. “My other minions have told me of you. You must be Tam… and Finella.” “So I take it that you’re NOT here to release me…? I’m sure it will happen in time. I’m afraid I can’t let you leave with the seal. Come, let us finish this.”

We can’t tell if she’s laughing or screaming as she blinks out… “Heh. You carry, but you do not understand. The seals will not hold if they’re all in one place. Your hands are our own. The result is the same.”

The seal is in the center of the room. The seal is a pop-up book with a sun rising. Ozzy grabs it. Power surges through him and we ARE LEVEL 10!!!

The tendrils recede as we make our way down the tower. We can either explore Irian or go back to Shae Mordai.
