We have 3 dragon shards & 9k gold. We decide to get the Amulet of Health, and Aerin puts it on and gives Tam their cloak of protection. We still have one shard left.

We go to the ground level of Sharn to catch the train. We board and head to the dining car (Engine>Passenger>Dining>Sleeper). We pay for our sleeper tickets and curse Gendrick for being a cheap ass.

Train runs w/ lightning elementals (one large one in the engine, each car has their own mini elemental under the car).

We meet a youth who is going to study in Kerrenburg named “Sarreth.” They are going to study the “ancient dragon below.” Their specialty is the “cult of the severed word” and there is also the “cult of the unsettling sun.” The cult of the severed word cut out their tongues.

Her journal says:
“4 travelers, the elf is valanar, the shapeshifter hides well, the wizard has a scar and mentioned his dreams. No sign of the seal.”

Ozy confronts her, but she keeps up the charade. All of a sudden the train car detaches from the engine and the brakes apply. A group of cultists attack us from the roof and the nearby hills. 

Sarreth had the following on her body: Sending stone, 15gp 8sp, inks & quills, journal, folded letter, small knife
Letter: Forged acceptance letter to the library of Korrenberg (seal seems off… wax is off)
Knife: Pen knife that hasn’t been used (would be perfect for cutting out someone’s tongue)
Journal: most of it is actual scholars notes, a few pages are different… physical descriptions of us (ew). We notice the following passage:
Four travelers. The elf is Valenar — she watches everything. The shapeshifter hides well but I saw its eyes change once. The warlock has a gauntlet of Quori make. The wizard carries a scar that *hums* — I could feel it in my teeth.
They know about the Dreaming. They broke something in Dal Quor. They left their prizes with the dragon, but they are going after the next one.
They are heading south. To the elves.
I await the knife.

We get into Starlaskar late in the evening for our layover. There’s a food vendor (“meat” cart). We have 12 hours until the train leaves.

Tam casts divination…
The smoke from the incense coalesces into a rolling sea and a small ship… the waves start to pick up and a massive creature comes out of the sea and lands on top of the boat, smashing it to pieces. (is this the legendary TRI SQUID!?!?!)

Tam sets up a hut in the train and an alarm spell in case anyone tries the door. Uneventful night. We wake to the smell of breakfast.

Tam manages to reply the last hour of the sending stone discussion.
“This is your final test- do you have the knife?”
“Yes I understand - I followed them onto the train, I got the ticket. I’ll get off at Starilaskur, they won’t know that I’m there”
“We’ll plan the decoupling at Sturngate”
“I’ll be off the train by then”
“You’ve done well - you deserve the knife. You’ve earned it”

Korrenberg - city of nerds
Docks
Taverns
Salty Fish
Woody pulp
Library
House Orien

Tam is so excited. Everyone else is not super impressed.

The plane of positive energy (the plane of waking) known as the “Eternal Dawn” - Irian
Full of positive energy that sustains unusual (but not necessarily good) beings
Sounds like a weird crystal place
Only one manifest zone in island of Arenal in the city of the dead
A place to respect. Run by Elves. They don’t mess around (no fun). Those elves worship the undying court. Some of their elders they put into “the soup” to keep the other elders alive (the undying court)
Finella HATES the soup.
No one eats the soup? Which seems wasteful. Why make soup if no one eats it?

The Chamber
Loose alliance of dragons (12-100?)
References go back ~4k years
2 popular theories… either a response to the giants coming up and trying to kill and conquer the world (dragons stepped in to keep peace - giants were banished to Xendrick) OR dragons became concerned when dragon marks started appearing, they thought it might be too much for humans and humanoids to handle, so they are keeping an eye on it.
Sounds like they’re concerned about balance
Reference to the “lords of dust”
Secret Cabal of Rakshassa
Have been in opposition to the Chamber since the beginning
Both try to use draconic prophesies to their purpose

Ozzy talks to Captain Nauraeul (Captain Knorr). The sea monster is a white whale. “Gretchen”

200 gp for a boat ride to Chez Cardel (sp?)
50gp off if we kill the whale on the way
