The floating lady seems like she’s bothered by a noise. Maybe caused by something in the basin.

Tam hears a repeating message if he listens really hard. It’s creepy and brain-wormy.

Ozzy goes into the room and the basin looks wrong. There’s an 8 inch black crystal wedged into the basin.

Kalen is floating near the far wall. “I told you… I told them to stop. Are you them? They didn’t stop.” She looks at the basin… “Do you hear it speaking? I can’t think any more.”

Ozzy and Tam try to get the crystal out of the basin.

“Just smash it or something… it’s yelling now!”

“Have you shown this diary to Varian? I am worried there is something wrong in Irian. Will you go there to find the root of the evil?”

Tam asks her what she knows about the Dalkyr “Locked away with the seals… of course there’s a seal in Irian… do you think they’re after that? They must have been trying to weaken the bond between our plan and Irian. If they have the access to Irian by breaking the manifest zone then they’d be able to go get the shard.”

Tam asks about the plinth. “It supports me in my state. If it were destroyed I’d be free of this place. I’ve been in here 17 centuries.” Tam asks if she wants to leave. “I don’t think I know anything else… I don’t think I can make that decision.”

We ask if we can take stuff. She says they have meaning and power. “Take one item.” Ozzy is very charismatic and we get to take 2 items.

Ozy shows Raven the Shard of severed dawn and it's still creepy. Tendrils grow from it and it tries to creep towards the archway. It's in the middle of the night 

Raven makes us friendship bracelets.

The deathless seem bored and creepy. Raven says they choose and are chosen. “They’re giving up the chance for rest to see our society flourish for centuries. It is a great sacrifice, but they experience things that we can’t dream of.”

The manifest zone is a lush garden in the center of town. There’s a winding path that spirals around the garden. We walk around and get to the entrance to Irian. “Walk into the clearing - you may or may not notice the change…”

½ mile away there’s a tower with a spiral staircase… it used to be white, but it’s starting to yellow. There are dark lines forming around it (vines?). The sky above the tower is filled (?) with the absence of light.

It’s uphill, which is annoying. 8 min later we get there. There is lightning in the sky with no clouds, which seems odd. Flickering and chaotic.

We see some flickery light bird-things. One of them hovers towards us “who… goes… there… what is… your business..? Darkness. No!” He throws a spear. These guys hit pretty hard and they cause radiant damage by being in proximity to them. They have some sort of radiant scream. They explode in radiant damage when they die. Tam is able to slow them, Aerin summons a team of puppies to fight them. Finnella shoots them in the face. We come out on top, but Tam looks a little worse for wear. After the dawn wardens are all dispatched we all notice that the essence of the Plane of Positive Energy causes damage to be healed at a rate of 1 point per 6 seconds. We think it may only work outside of combat. 

The 8 story-tall tower is bigger up close than it seemed from further away. There are glyphs but the language is very old and unintelligible. The floors get darker as they get encased with vines/tendrils as they go up.

The archway is open and the interior is lit from the floor. There’s a circular room with a staircase that winds in and out of the building. “This is going to take us a while, we might want to rest here.”
