We kissed Captain Knorr and now he’s alive. Reginald (the chicken) is steering the boat. Tam spends some time to learn his spell. Aerin turns back into a non-shark. Finella and Ozzy play cards but neither of them understand the game so they both think they’re losing. They might be playing two different games. Knorr seems sad. Everyone takes a little rest.

Knoor catches some fish and makes orange cake for dinner. Finella notices some shore birds during her watch. Aerin sees clouds over a land mass… maybe 40 miles off of a coast. The clouds are likely in the Gulf of the Moon. Ozzy tells Reginald how to steer the boat. Knoor comes up and yells “land!” and points at the clouds. He’s excited… land in an hour! Do things.

The cliffs of Arenal loom in the distance on either side of the Gulf of the Moon. On the right (west) side is a dense, lush, forest… on the left is bare rock. We pull into the Gulf and Knorr drops us off and says he’ll wait 2 weeks.

Reginald is a girl?

We take the row boat to a beach with dark sand. A path leads into the forest. We drag the boat up onto the shore. Ozzy carves his initials into the boat so no one will steal it.

Before we leave Tam casts divination… “are there any particular dangers that we will face as we traverse through the jungle.” “The fauna of the woods hunger, but the denizens are possibly more dangerous.”

The sand is black like charcoal, the trees where we enter are huge. It will be dim light in the forest. We start walking through the forest and wind our way up to the top of the cliffs we saw. Looks like the trail is an animal path.

Zeyna’s well: Knorr doesn’t know much, but it’s a place where young tribespeople have to go get water from there to go into the crypts to pour it over the “deathless.” He describes them as not “undead” but not “dead” but not alive, you know? Finella knows a little about the deathless… their religion is based on keeping certain members of the society alive (but not alive). Soup related.

We’re traipsing through the jungle following a path. We feel as if we’re being watched. We see some feline tracks. Eventually we all feel better. Refreshed. Tam, detects magic and it appears we’re nearing the Irian manifest zone and the plane of positive energy has bled through giving us a nice feeling. 

We eventually reach a clearing and get ambushed by 4 jaguars. We do a really good job of dispatching them. Lots of good team synergy. Slow spell from Tam, Aerin changes into a Quetzacoatlus and casts conjure animals. Finella turns them into pin cushions and Ozy swings away. Then there are about 500 more panthers and then three elves drop out of the trees and kill more of the panthers. She’s kinda a jerk and asks us why we’re in the forest without a writ. She’s going to escort us to Shea Mordai. She said not to fuck with them. We believe her.

We collect 2.5 panther pelts. Tam thinks they’re icky.

We follow this elf lady to talk with someone else. Finella flies with Aerin and Tam flies on the broom. Ozzy walks with the elves and chats with them about customs and how not to offend. Religion: the undying court. The elders hold the memories of the past and help make decisions. The manifest zone is a sacred site. They limit access to their own kind (she looks at Finella). The zone helps to keep the undying court “undying.” There are rumors of a primordial ooze that they gain power from (the soup) but that is nonsense.

Ozzy generally describes the issues we’ve seen in other manifest zones and asks if there have been issues here. She mentions that it will be good for us to speak to the elders. Ozzy convinces her to tell us more - she’s 427 years old. Her mentor doesn’t want to ask for help, but they need help. If we convince him that we can help he may grant us access. She’s good at shooting because she’s very old.

Old guy’s name is Varaen.(VAR-ian)

Vault dedicated to “Kalen ir Talarath.” She is also one of the greatest warriors of the tribe. Gave her life to protect the vault. Memorializes her life and their culture. She is the sole watcher of the vault. “Pay special attention to the decorations.”
